VI Preface.-Introduction.

It is said that Barnabas Horton I. was large in stature, and of a ruddy complexion, and of fine social qualities.
His tombstone is of English blue marble, five feet long and about three feet wide. It is placed horizontally over the grave. The stone was re-lettered about fifty or sixty years ago by Jonathan G. Horton. It is elevated about eighteen inches from the ground, on a good stone base. The original base was of brick, but it had all crumbled down many years ago. The present base was put under the stone at the time it was re-lettered by Jonathan G. Horton.
The inscription surrounds the border of the stone, and reads as follows:
"Here lieth buried the body of Mr. Barnabas Horton, who was born at Mousely, Leicestershire, Old England, and died at Southold, on the 13th day of July, 1680, aged 80 years."
In the centre of the stone we find the Epitaph, as follows:
"Here lies my body tombed in dust
'Till Christ shall come to raise it with the just;
My soul ascended to the throne of God,
Where with sweet Jesus now I make abode:
Then hasten after me, my dearest wife,
To be partaker of this blessed life;
And you, dear children, all follow the Lord,
Hear and obey His public sacred word;
And in your houses call upon His name,
For oft I have advised you to the same:
Then God will bless you with your children all,
And to this blessed place He will you call."
Heb. xi: 4.—"He being dead, yet speaketh."
It is said that this epitaph was written by himself, and that it, together with the inscription, date of his death excepted, was all put upon the stone before he died. He was the only one of the original thirteen who brought his tombstone with him, and this fact seems to indicate a commendable desire to see that his name and memory should not perish from the earth.
Note.—We have followed Griffin's Journal in relation to the thirteen old Puritans who first settled in Southold. But C. B. Moore, Esq., of New York City, who has been more thorough and faithful than any other person, in studying the history
