Preface.-Introduction. VII

and genealogy of the early settlers of Southold—examining all the deeds and wills, and other authentic documents to be found, and also copying the inscriptions from every headstone, not only in Southold, but over nearly the whole Island—makes it very evident that some of those named were not there at so early a date, and he also says that Peter Hallock, who is named as one of the thirteen, was the grandson of the Puritan Hallock who settled at Southold, and whose Christian name was William. Mr. Moore is one of the best genealogists of the country, and in relation to Long Island, he is the best authority extant.
MORE ABOUT THE OLD HOUSE.

It will be seen by the engraving that the old house is double. The western part is that which was built by Barnabas in 1659–60. The east or two-story part was built by Jonathan I., about 1682. The upper room of this part was used for a court-house for nearly twenty years, as we learn from Thompson's History of Long Island, and some of the old benches used when it was a court-house are still preserved. The old "castle," as Jonathan G. Horton, its last Horton occupant, used to call it, is in all probability the oldest wood house in America. I know of no dwelling-house of any kind, stone or brick, now standing, that can date back as far as this venerable old mansion. There were a few huts on the east of Long Island previous to 1640—two or three it is said on Shelter Island. But these, as well as those built by the Puritans, immediately on their settlement in Southold, soon all passed away. Not a vestige of any of the first generation buildings can be found except this one. It remained for the house that Barnabas built to survive the wreck of ages, and to stand to-day as a noble representative of the dwellings of two hundred and fifteen years ago. But the old house stands to-day not only as peering above all others by its age, but also by its occupancy. It is not very often that we find two generations of the same name, living and dying in the same house—rarely find three. But here we have six generations in succession, all bearing the Horton name, living and dying in the same house, and all born in it except Barnabas I., and his son Jonathan. We may go to the castles and palaces of the old world, and search long and diligently, and fail to find a parallel case.
With a few repairs, the old castle may yet stand for generations far in the future.
It requires some thought and reflection to realize the lapse of time since the old house was built. See the old Puritan himself there twenty years; then his son Jonathan, twenty-eight years; and then Jonathan, Jr., about sixty years; and next Lawrence and his son Jona-
