X Preface.-Introduction.

Southold. It is still a long old gun, though not as long as it was once, as it was bursted by overloading on one Thanksgiving Day, and about eight or ten inches of the muzzle cut off.
The CASK, in which he packed a portion of his household goods, and brought over with him, is still in existence, and is owned by Gilbert W. Horton, of Bay View, Southold. It is doubly historic from the fact that when the British invaded Long Island it was filled with wheat and buried, thus securing the wheat from the foraging parties of the British army. It is made of solid oak—hoops and all—the hoops are square and about an inch and a quarter thick—only one hoop missing. It is used for a grain cask, and will hold about fifteen bushels. It was formerly called "uncle Barney's money barrel," as romance had it, that he brought it over full of gold and silver.
His WALKING STAFF is still preserved. It is made of the Yew tree wood, has a fine ivory head with the letters "J. H." and the figures "1617" in apparently golden specks indented into it, from which it would seem that it once belonged to his father, and that J. H. (Joseph Horton) were his initials. It is now owned by Silas R. Horton, of Goshen, N. Y.
Many other mementos of the old Puritan are in existence, some of them in the Long Island Historical Rooms, Brooklyn, N. Y.
The HORTON NAME—First Settlers in this Country.

The word Horton in the Anglo-Saxon language means an enclosure, or garden of vegetables. It is said to be derived from ort and tun, ort, meaning plant, and tun, enclosed. The name is evidently of Latin origin, and has been known in England ever since the conquest of Cæsar.
The Hortons in England, and their descendants in America, have generally been cultivators of the soil. They have been found almost universally in the middle class of society, and it is not known that any royal blood has ever coursed in their veins. They are, and always have been, producers rather than consumers, and for industry, integrity, and piety, they will lose nothing in a comparison with the renowned families of either the new or the old world.
The first of the family who emigrated to this country, of whom we have any authentic record, came over from England 1633 to 1638. Thomas, Jeremiah, and Barnabas, were among the early emigrants, and old tradition says they were brothers. Thomas came over in the "Mary and John," in 1633, settled permanently in Springfield, Mass.
