DISINTIZRliS'l‘ED EVIDENCE.

Ihave thought it advisable to insert a few extracts from accounts of
the Massacres of April, 1909, given by disinterested witnesses.

“ “'0 are having a perfectly hideous time here. Thousands have been murdered~25,000
in this province they say ; but the number is probably greater, for every Christian village
was wiped out In Adana about 5000 have perished. After Turks and Armenians had
made peace, the Turks came in the night with hose and kerosene. and set ﬁre to what remained
of the Armenian quarter. Next day the French and Armenian schools were ﬁred. Nearly every-
one in the Armenian school perished, anybody trying to escape being shot down by thesoldiers.”

“ The Turkish Authorities do nothing except arrest nnoﬂ'ending Armenians, from whom
by torture they extort the most fanciful confessions. Even the wounded are not safe from
their injustice. A man was being carried in to me yesterday when he was seized and taken
off to gaol. I dare not think what his fate may be.

“For ﬁends incarnate commend me to the Turks. Nobody is safe from them. They
murder babies in front of their mothers ; they half murder men, and violate the wives while
the husbands are lying there dying:r in pools of blood.”

“ The authorities did nothing, and the soldiers were worse than the crowd, for they were
better armed. One house in our quarter was burned with 115 people inside. “’6 counted
the bodies. The soldiers set ﬁre to the door, and as the windows had iron bars, nobody
could get out. Everybody in the house was roasted alive. They were all women and
children and old people.”—Extract from letter oers. Doughty-\Vylie, wife of British Consul
at Adana; published in the London “ Daily Mail.”

   

  

«a

 

IN THIS HOUSE 115 WOMEN AND CHILDREN WERE ROASTED ALIVE.
History repeats itself. In 1895 Turkish soldiers fell upon seventy to eighty young
women and girls in a church, where they had fled for refuge, and after hideouslv outraging

them, barricaded them in, setting ﬁre to the building at the same time, and derisively shouting
to their victims as they were being roasted alive, to call upon their Chrlst to save them now

