of blackened ruins, the stark walls of the churches and houses rising 11p out of the ashes and
charred timbers heaped on every side. \Vhat must it mean to the ﬁve thousand men and
women and little children who have survived a painful ﬂight to the seacoast and have now
returned to their mountain home, only to ﬁnd their houses sacked and burned ! There were
nine Christian villages which clustered about Kessab in the valleys below. Several of these
have been completely destroyed by tire. All have been plundered and the helpless people
driven out or slain.”

“ Can you imagine the feelings of the Kessab people as they climbed on foot the long trail
up the mountain, and then as they came over the ridge into full view of their charred and
ruined dwellings ? Their stores of wheat, 'barley and rice had been burned ; clothing, cooking
utensils, furniture and tools had gone; their goats, cows and mules had been stolen; their silk
industries stamped out; their beloved churches reduced to smouldering heaps The bodies of
their friends and relatives who had been killed had not been buried. And yet the love of
home is so strong that the people have settled do“ 11 there with the determination to clear up
the debris and rebuild their houses.’ ’—Extraets fioin “ The Sack ofKessab, ” Stephen \ an it.
T1011 b1 idge.

As these sheets are goincr through the press there comes news offamine
at Zeito'on The Rev. F. \V. Macullum, American Missionary at Marash,
writes to the Rev. \V. \V. Peet,American Missionary at Constantinople, that
12,000 souls in and around Zeitoon are dying ofhunger ; they are wandering
about in rags, mixing bran and water, and cooking and eating it, if they can
get even that. Rev. Macullum adds, “The same story comes to us from all
sides. As we foresaw” all along, from now on the distress will be greatest.”

If 50,000 were massacred, the list of those who have died and are dying
of homelessness and starvation will exceed 150,000. It is true; and the
numbers are not exaggerated. Last year the people reaped no harvest, and
this year there are no sowings.

The latest news is that Mush, a prosperous Armenian village that had
escaped the desolation of the massacreS, has been plundered in a night attack
by armed Kurds and the villagers are now reduced to extreme distress Before
the outbreak the Armenian patriarchal vicar at \Iush had repeatedly appealed
to the Armenian Patriarch at Constantinople, and the Armenian Patriarch
had repeatedly appealed to the Authorities at Constantinople asking protec-
tion {01 the villagers of Mush as a Kurdish attack was apprehended It is
evident that the authorities at Constantinople are unable to protect thriving
Almenian villages from Kurdish and Turkish raiders.

