INTRODUCTION

TO 2N1) PRINTING.

My object in writing this little book is to lay the hard case of my un-
fortunate race before the men and women of the United States ; since it is
from the United States that the American Missionaries have gone forth, who
have been the only helping influence from without for my suffering people in
Asiatic Turkey. To the earnest and devoted men and women of the
American Missions, we Armenians owe a debt of gratitude which we can
never repay.

If in the contents of the pages of this little book I have exaggerated
Facts by one whit or one iota, ifI have deviated by one hair’s breadth from
the Truth, I stand to be judged.

“ God save us from another Adana, but the sword ofIslam has not been
dulled ” was one of the clarion notes sounded at the Sixth International
Convention ofthe Student Volunteer Movement, which was held at Rochester,
New York. The man who sounded that clarion note knew Islam, and
because knowing of my own knowledge that the sword of Islam has not been
dulled, I tremble lest its sharp edge fall once more on the neck of my help-
less race. IfI knew and felt sure in mine own heart thatthe sword of Islam
was dulled, I would be content to let bygones be bygones, and to hold my
peace and be silent for ever. ~

Like the sudden explosion of a volcano in the physical world, comes the
explosion of a Turkish Massacre of Armenians in the moral world. It comes
just in that way ; the subterranean ﬁres are always there, but all of a sudden
the sulphur ﬂames of religious fanaticism burst, the lava ﬂoods of race hatred
and lust of plunder, break forth and run in ﬁery streams; the unfortunate
victims are pounced upon, swooped upon, pillaged, plundered, butchered,
slaughtered, subjected to outrages so hideous, cruel, loathsome, and revolt-
ing, that no pen could depict their horrible realities and the details can never
go into print. The human mind is staggered and asks itself the question if
even the imaginations of ﬁends and devils could originate such horrors.
Then this orgy of the human fiends is arrested. For the time being the
appetite for blood, lust, and plunder is satisﬁed ; for the time being, the eye
is content with the scenes of havoc and desolation lying under the sun ; the

