10

smell of corpses is in the air, the odor from the carcases of the “christian
swine” reek in the nostrils of the Turk, he turns away, his jaws dripping with
blood, and rests to couch for a future spring. we have seen that sort of an
end to the tragedy ofa tiger's victim : the tiger has eaten his ﬁll, he rests,
to keep guard over the crunched bones and mangled bits of bloody ﬂesh that
bestrew the earth. So also now there is a residue left of those that‘ have
served as the meat and wine of this devil’s feast; the demons have gorged
themselves over the banquet, and now, there are left over the broken remains
ofthe banquet, the miserable residue homeless and destitute.

Civilized nations have received a temporary moral shock, like a shock
that spreads-from the centre of an explosion ; the electric vibration running
far and wide from the scene of the centre of devastation. There are among
these civilized nations generous and kind-hearted people who open their
purse strings; they crive money to purchase shelter, food and clothing for
these homeless, naked and hungry beggars, made homeless, naked 0and
hungry through no fault of their own But oh! yea Generous and kind heart-
ed people ! can any power under heaven assuage the heart anguish of this
miserable residue? Can they be made by any means of human comfort to
forget the black horrors or recover from the effects of the ﬁres of the hideous
afﬂiction through which they have passed? \Vhat is there left for a woman
who has seen with her own eyes the slaughter and heard with her own ears
the dying cry of her murdered child ? even her reason must give way under
the stress ofher anguish. All ye who are mothers, I appeal to you, for one
moment to put yourselves in the place of thousands of such mothers, in
whose hearts the same mothers love burns as in yours, and then measure
the depth of their agony.

Generous and kind hearted people who open your purse strings; would
to God I entreat, ye would raise up your voices and demand that this hideous
slaughter and oppression of a helpless christian race should cease. \Vould
to God I entreat, ye would raise up your voices and demand that this people
of an industrious, intelligent christian race, robust in mind and body, should
be let to live. \Vould to God I entreat, that ye would raise up your voices
and demand forthem that security of life and property to which they are
entitledjust as equally as all other peoples.

Public Sentiment has done great things In the world 5 history. Public
Sentiment liberated Greece, '1 he Lebanon, bThe Balkan States from Turkish
Oppression. Slavery was abolished in the United States through Public
Sentiment: but alas l does Public Sentiment sleep for this helpless Christian
race. Are they not God's creatures? have they not a right to live on God’s

