12

of the Porte have been unreasonably forgotten or neglected. They are fully
as wretched as the Slavs or Cretans have been ; and in so far worse off,
that in Europe there exists no large body of tribes making murder and
robbery its regular and daily occupation as the Kurds, and latterly the
Circassians also, have done in Armenia. If anyone will take the trouble to
read the complaints of oppressions and cruelties presented to the Porte by
the Armenian Patriarchate in 1872 (since reprinted in England) and some of
the more recent statements printed by the Armenians in England on the
same tOpic, he will see that the state of Turkish Asia presents as grave and
pressing a problem as that of Bulgaria itself."

In the 4th edition of the same book. published in 1896, the following
note appears to the passage I have quoted :

"Shortly after this was written, the Blue Books presented to Parlia-
ment, containing reports from British Consuls in Asiatic Turkey, showed
that things were really far worse there than they had been in Bulgaria or
Herzegovina.”

What: has followed since 1876 is too well known. For seeking redress
from their frightful grievances the Armenians were hunted like wild beasts
and killed like rats and ﬂies during the Hamidian regime.

You will tell me, my christian friends, that with the rise of the reform
party in Turkey, the era of massacres is at an end, and I will tell you that
the conditions of 1876 and 1896 have not actually changed, though they
may seemingly appear so to the uninformed and uninitiated. I will answer
you that the hideous massacres of April last happened nine months after the
reform party ﬁrst rose in power, and nine months after the inauguration of
the Constitution. I do not question the goodwill of the reform party, but
the reform party does not comprise the whole Turkish nation, and until the
Turk learns to become liberal, civilized and human, there may be no more
Armenians left, unless some Christian Power such as the United States
demands their protection and enforces it. No l my Christian friends, it can
be well for other Christians in the Turkish Empire with their powerful
Governments at their back; but alas! there is no security for a subject
people alien in race and religion.

The massacres in April last raged from Adana to Alexandretta, and
according to authenticated reports about ﬁfty thousand men, women and
children were hideously exterminated; more than this, the last massacres
were especially characterized by the most hideous, the most loathsome, the
most revolting and ferocious cruelties perpetrated on women and children.
Now what other name can we ﬁnd for the perpetrators of this diabolical

