13

orgy, except to call them ﬁends incarnate; and who is the bold man who
can guarantee that these same ﬁends incarnate have become metamorphosed
and changed all of a sudden ; or that the handful of liberal Turks at Con-
stantinople are capable of controlling and restraining them. \Ve have not
even heard that the leaders and participators of the last massacres have
been punished as they deserved ; and what is the reason they are left un-
punished? because the Government is afraid to punish Mahommedans for
killing Christians; because the liberal Turks dare. not punish the “true
believers " for killing “ Kafﬁrs. ”

The religion of Mahommed, the religion of the suord, has been infused
into the Turk, and to understand the effect of the religion of Mahommed
upon the Turk, it is necessary to regard it from {01.11 aspects, or from four
points of analysis. First, the fundamental doctrine and law ofthe religion.
Second, the character of the founder as an example to his followers. Third,
the racial and ethnographic characteristics of the Turk. Fourth, the effect
which this particular religion would be likely to have 011 this particular race.
\Vhen we have viewed the Turk and his government from these four points
of analysis, we have the explanation of all the woe and desolation which
have lain over the countries under Turkish rule.

“ \Vhen ye encounter the unbelievers strike off their heads until you
have made a great slaughter of them " is a chapter of the Koran which the
Turk has religiously and steadfastly made his creed.

In conclusion, I will ask my readers to compare one point of difference
between the two races, the oppressor and the oppressed. Thousands upon
thousands of Armenian women, thousands upon thousands of Armenian
children, have been hounded to death, or savagely, ferociously, horribly and
loathsomely maltreated by the Turk, and yet in all the agonizing years when
Massacre has succeeded upon Massacre, has there been one known case or
one single instance of a Turkish urman or child malt1eated by Armenians ’

Thbe last massac1es though especially organized from the Palace at
Constantinople, were official];r announced to originate from an affray
between one A1menian and three Turks, in which the single handed one, on
the one side, grappling with the three on the other killed one of the three:
given equal numbers and arms, the A1men1an is always a match for the
Turk, but alas for him that unequal numbers and want ofarms have always
made him the Victim of his oppr.essor

Ahmed Riza Bey in the ﬁ1st part (Ses Causes) ofhis book “ La Crise de
L’Orient” published in Paris in 1907 holds a b1ief fo1 his nation which
through its own fallacious arguments falls to the ground. I will quote one
passage as an example.

