l4

“ Jamais les populations chr‘etiennes ne se sont révoltées, spontane’ment,
d’elles~mémes. Les revoltes ont toujours éte partielles et espacées, ce qui
tend bien a prouver qu'elles sont provoquées non par ce'rtains injustices
administrative que nous savons Gtre constantes et les memes pour tous,
mais par les sourdes menées de l’extérieur. Les agences co'nsulaires, les
écoles etrangeres, les maisons des missionnaires, couvertes par les' Capitula-
tions, ont servi de foyer de propagande, de depots d'armes, et meme de
refuge pour les perturbateurs.’ Souvent les ambassadeurs sont intervenu's
porir faire gracier des rebelles pris et con‘damnés. On se rappelle avec
quelle solennité les Arméniens 'qui s’étaient introduits dans la Banque
Ottomane furent conduits sains et saufs a bord d’un bateau par le drogman
.de l’Ambassade russe—leur complice‘.

“Si ces ’prétendus patriotards sonttant soutenus et choyés clans le monde
occidental, c est parce qu ’ils constituent un element 011 plutot un instrument
cle destruction au service de certains Européens éléves dans les preju'gés des
Croissades et qui crient avec Chateaubriand . (‘ L’ espece humaine ne peut
que gagner a la destruction de l’Empire Ottoman’)." .,

The author of “ La Crise cle L’Orient” continues in this strain. Are we
then to suppose that the British Consuls, men whose truthfulness has never
been impeached, whose reports on the unsupportable sufferings ofthe subject
christian races and the oppressions and hideous atrocities of the Turks, have
ﬁlled volumes : and likewise the American Missionaries, men who have
deservedly gained the honor and respect of the world, whose statements
have corroborated the British Consular reports ; have been according to
Ahmed Riza Bey the mischief—makers in the Turkish Empire? since it is
from them alone the world has gained the widest and most correct know—
ledge of the daily miseries and oppessions under which the subject Christian
races have groaned. Are we also to suppose that men like Mr. James
Bryce and Dr. Dillon have by mendacious writings upheld them, British
Consul and American Missionary, liars, and mischief makers? Or
rather are we not to suppose that ifthinking men and women in the world
have come to cry out with Chateaubriand “ L’espece humaine ne peut que
gagner :‘1 la destruction cle l’Empire Ottoman ” it is because the Turks have
earned the world’s condemnation through their own diabolical acts, and on
account of the woe and desolation which Turkish rule has worked over the
fairest provinces under the sun. If the Turk will turn from the evil ofhis
ways unto good, the stigma of “ the unspeakable Turk ” which now attaches
itself to him, will cease to be a veritable truth. The bringing about of the
transformation rests with himself. '

