Further in answer to Ahmed Riza Bey's account of the Armenian
“ prétendus patriotards ” in connection with the Ottoman Bank ; I cannot do
better than quote from Mr. Bryce’s version of the story, and the massacre
that followed : “In the following June serious trouble arose at Van, where
some sort ofinsurrection is said to have been planned, though in the discre-
pancy of the accounts it is hard to arrive at the truth. Masses of Kurds
came down threatening to massacre the Christians, and a conflict in which
many innocent persons perished, was with difﬁculty brought to an end by
the intervention of the British Consul. A little later the Armenian revolu-
tionary party, emboldened by the rising in Crete, where the Christians, being
well armed and outnumbering the Muslims, held their ground successfully,
issued appeals to the Embassies and to the Turkish Government to introduce
reforms, threatening disturbances if the policy of repression and massacre
was persisted in. These threats were repeated in August, and ultimately,
on August 26, a band ofabout twenty Armenians, belonging the revolutionary
party, made a sudden attack on the Imperial Ottoman Bank in Constan-
tinople, declaring they were prepared to hold it and blow it up should the
Sultan refuse their demand. They captured the building by a map d6 mnz'u,
but were persuaded by the Russian dragoman to withdraw upon a promise
ofsafety. Meanwhile the Government, who through their spies knew of the
project, had organised and armed a large mob of Kurds and Lazes—many
of whom had recently been brought to the city—together with the lowest
Turkish class. Using the occasion, they launched this mob upon the peace
ful Armenian population. The onslaught began in various parts ofthe city so
soon after the attack on the Bank that it had obviously been prearranged,
and the precaution had been taken to employ the Turkish rufﬁans in different
quarters from those in which they dwelt : so that they might less easily be
recognised. Carts had moreover been prepared in which to carry off the
dead. For two days an indiscriminate slaughter went on, in which not only
Armenian merchants and traders of the cultivated class, not only the indus‘
trious and peaceable Armenians of the humbler class, clerks, domestic ser-
vants, porters employed on the quays and in the warehouses, but also women
and children were butchered in the streets and hunted down all through the
suburbs. On the afternoon of the 27th the British Charge d’AFfaires (whose
action throughout won general approval) told the Sultan he would land
British sailors, and the Ambassadors telegraphed to the Sultan. Then the
general massacre was stopped, though sporadic slaughter went on round the
city during the next few days. The Ambassadors, who did not hesitate
to declare that the massacre had been organised by the Government,
estimated the number of killed at from 6000 to 7000; the ofﬁcial report

\

\

