17

was a race up to that time among non-Moslem peoples which with sincere and deep feeling
honored the Ottoman fatherland that race was the Armenian. It is the Armenians who
wear most nearly the national dress, who speak and write Turkish best, and recognize the
Ottoman country as their father-land. Besides this it is the Armenians who engage in
commerce and agriculture, and thus, by demonstrating its fruitfulness, increase the value of
the Ottoman Empire. Because a few among them justly started an agitation, these our noble
and industrious brethren were being massacred. \Vhat a terrible scene ! \Vhen we
left the school building we saw hundreds of the bodies of our Armenian compatriots being
removed in manure carts; legs and arms were hanging down outside. This bloody scene will
ever remain impressed on my mind. /

“ This shocking crime of Yildiz formed a deep lake of blood, and this lake, during the
whole course of a cursed absolutism, up to the last moment, grew wider. Even during the
past nine months of the Constitution, in spite of the brotherly feelings which had been shown,
the awful events in Adana took place and the souls of all true Osmanlis melted into tears.
Up to the present time the deep sorrow caused by this event has not disappeared, because this
bloody wound in our social body cannot easily be cured. \Vhilc we ﬁll our stomachs with
choiee morsels, while we rest selﬁshly in our comfortable beds, these fatherless and brotherlcss
orphans, widows hungry, naked, and barefoot wander hither and thither, and thousands of
families are ﬂeeing from the fatherland. “'e are convinced that the government is doing its
work, but what has happened is so great a calamity that it can keep a government busy for
years. However much sacriﬁce we may make, still it will be inadequate, because the
happiness of the fatherland depends on healing such blood wounds as these as soon as possible.
we are convinced that the government and all connected with it are persuaded of this as well as
ourselves. \Ve must now wipe out the traces of the misfortune brought by a cursed period.
\Ve must now comfort weeping hearts. \Ve must understand and teach those who do not
understand that patriotism and brotherhood (l ) not differ from each other. The responsibility
of the government for the Armenians is very great and very weighty. The whole Ottoman
nation is under obligations to protect this suffering race, because the liberty we enjoy t0~day
is in large part due to the blood shed by the Armenians. \Ve thought that these truths
were so obvious that we preferred to keep silence, whereas to-day we understand that it is
necessary from time to time to recall the greatness of our obligation. “’9 must not forget
that this unhappy people up to yesterday has endured only barbarism, and for twelve years
has been constantly oppressed and ground to the earth, and has given thousands of victims.
Hereafter we must work to assure them that the era of massacres has passed, and with all our
strength of mind and soul we must quiet them. The obligation of the government to protect
them is also very heavy, because our Armenian countrymen live among wandering tribes.
“’0 must all assist the government and point out its obligation. It must be declared in
public and periodically that the one of the most important duties of the Ottoman nation is to
protect, together with those of other races, the interests, the life, and property of the
Armenians as well, since these are their sacred rights. Let investigations be made and let
whatever is necessary be done in order to reach this aim.”

This article of the Turkish ofﬁcer, who however does not dare disclose
his identity; and the account given by an authority like Mr. James Bryce
surely refute the facile explanation of Ahmed Riza Bey in alluding to the
Massacres as “ les Massacres occasionnes par les aventuriers Arméniens."
Indeed it holds out poor hope for the furtherance of liberty and justice in
Turkey when the man who is the President of the Chamber of Deputies only

