20

The efforts of the Armenians, and the entreaties of their Patriarch
Nerses had procured the insertion of Article 16 in the Treaty of San
Stefano signed between Russia and Turkey in March 1878. In fact the
wording of the Article had been suggested by the Patriarch himself. It
provided the following stipulation for the protection of the Armenians :—

“As the evacuation by the Russian troops of the territory which they
now occupy in Armenia, and which is to be restored to Turkey, might give
rise to conﬂicts and complications detrimental to the maintenance ofgood
relations between the two countries, the Sublime Porte engages to carry into
effect without further delay the improvements and reforms demanded by
local requirements in the provinces inhabited by the Armenians, and to
guarantee their security against the Kurds and Circassians.”

\Vhat followed has passed into history. The British Government of
which Lord Beaconsﬁeld (then Mr. D’Israeli) was Premier, and Lord Salis-
bury Foreign Secretary, once more pursued the old policy ofbaﬁling Russian
aggrandizement in Turkey. Afraid that her own real or fancied interests
would thereby become imperilled, England threw in the weight of her power,
and virtually commanded the substitution of the Treaty of Berlin in lieu of
the Treaty of San Stefano. Thus the substantial guarantee of a natural and
immediate protector, both able and desirous of enforcing the protection which
the Armenians then had in Russia, was taken away, and the security of im-
potent words given in its stead, namely 2— ‘

“ The Sublime Porte undertakes to carry out without further delay the
improvements and reforms demanded by local requirements in the provinces
inhabited by the Armenians, and to guarantee their security against the
Circassians and Kurds. It will periodically make known the steps taken to
this effect to the Powers, who will superintend their application."

“ It will periodically mar/2e [mow/'2 [/26 steps [0/6611 to l/zz's eﬂect to Me
Powers, 70/10 will superinle/m’ Z/zez'r app/z'caz‘z'ozz.” How this last proviso
could furnish food for laughter were it not for the terrible tragedy involved
in it.

The insertion of Article 61 in the Treaty of Berlin, granted, or rather
seemingly granted, by the six Powers of Europe, proved in reality, as sub-
sequent events bore out, an instrument of death and torture. It was as if
the reversal of the ﬁgures had reversed the possibilities of succour and
protection, and with the death of the Czar Liberator, the last chance of the
Armenians died.

The Turkish Massacres of 1875 and 1876 which led up to the Russo-
Turkish “far of 1877 are historical facts too well known to need further

