L5

hoping that fer their sakes the history of the world, which means in other
words the history of human selfishness, was going to be reversed ; and they
forgot what was more important than all, that Europe had nothing to gain
by their emancipation. There is only one explanation for their folly. It is
a peculiarity ofhuman nature that the troubles we have been hearing with
more or less patience, become unbeatable when once hopes of deliverance
from them are awakened. Article 61 of the Treaty of Berlin awakened
hopes that proved bitterer in the eating than Dead Sea fruit. It aroused
towards the Armenians the diabolical animosity of the human fiend who held
sovereignty over them.

Hunted like wild beasts, killed like rats and ﬁles, out of the depths of
its agony and its martyrdom, the nation has still contrived to rear its head
and live; for it was as it is now, the industrious, energetic, self-respecting
element in the Turkish Empire, with a virile life in its loins and sinews, that
centuries of oppression culminating in the unspeakable horrors of a thirty
years’ martyrdom has failed to exterminate.

As for the Treaty of Berlin—It has done its work.

THE" ARMENIAN MASSACRES AND THE
TURKISH CONSTITUTION.

The Turkish Constitution came with a bound that shook the equanimity
of Europe. To the anxious and jealously watching eyes of Europe the
“sick man in her midst " was at last becoming moribund. His recovery
was as startling as unexpected. Europe had not correctly gauged the latent
forces within the Turkish Empire, neither had she correctly estimated the
far-reaching astuteness of the tyrant on the throne.

Assailed by enemies from without and within, feeling the foundation of
his throne crumbling, Abdul Hamid, arch murderer and assassin, performed
his own (wt/0 a’a fé, and rose from his ashes a constitutional sovereign. The
obduracy of the merciless tyrant melted like wax before the approach of
personal danger, and the act was necessary to save himself.

Hopes rose high at such a magniﬁcent coup d’etdt of the revolutionaries.
Young Turks and Armenians fell on each other’s necks, embraced, and
mingled their tears of joy together. Leaders of the Turkish Constitution

