like :1 round how, 11 great 11101111 e1e revealed the humid spi1it’s intelligence '111d zeal 1111-
quenched. O11 his head was 11 Close- ﬁtting cap of 11 1111110 vel1et.

Thus, near the end of last December, one of a century’s greatest 111e11——.\lgrditeh
Khrimian, Katholikos ot'the Armenian Church, and soul of the Armenian people—slowly
approaching to death, lay in the ancient monastery called lﬂtchmiatzin, or“ The Only-Begotten
is Descended.” From the window of 11 neighboring room 11c might have looked across the
frost hound plain of the Araxes, where the vines were now all cut close and buried for the
winter. Beyond the plain stood a dark mass of whirling snow and hurricane that hid the
cone of Ararat And just beyond A1a11‘1t lies Lake \'a11,last puddle of the. Deluge. 0n the
shore of that lake, eigl1t_1-se1en years ago,l{h1i1niai1 was born In 1820 the Turkish
Empire 1111s sti'll midiminished by sea or land; the Sultan still counted as one of the formid-
able Pow'els of Europe. It was four yea1s before P1111011 set out to deliver Greece from his
tyranny, and established for England a 1eputation as the generous champion of freedom—a
reputation which still rather pathetically survives throughout the Near East. Long and
stormy had been the life upon which the Katholikos now looked hack, but not unhappy, for
from ﬁrst to last it had been inspired 11y one absorbing and unselﬁsh aim—the freedom and
regeneration of his people. It is true he had failed.

From his earliest years, when he had witnessed the terrors of Turkish oppresion in the
homes ofArmenians round Ararat, he was possessed by the spirit of nationality—such 11
spirit as only kindles in oppressed races, but dies away into easygoing tolerance among the
prosperous and contented of the world. He began as a poet, wandering far and wide through
the Turkish Persian, and Russian sections ofArmenia, visiting Constantinople and Jerusalem,
and recalling to his people by his poems the scenes and trlories of then national hist01y.
Entering the monastic 01"del after his 11 ife’ s death, he devoted himselfto the building of schools,
which he generously thr'ew open to Kurds, the hereditary assassins of Armenians. For many
years, while Europe was occupied with Crimean wars, Austrian wars, or French and German
wars, we see him ceaselessly journeying from V1111 to Constantinople and through the
cities of Asia, unyielding in the contest, though continually defeated, his schools burned, his
printing-presses broken 11p, his sacred emblems of the Host hung in 111ockcry round the necks
of dogs. \Vhen elected Armenian patriarch of Constantinople (1809), he was driven from
his oiliee after four years.

But the cup of Turkish iniquity was filling. The pitilcss slaughtm ot Bulgalians and
Armenians alike was more than even the European Powers could stand. \ ith 'aried motives,
lussia sent her armies to ﬁght their way to the walls of Constantinople, and Khrimian found
himselfsummoned to plead ahis people’s cause befOIe the Congrse s of Berlin Though he
speaks no language but Armenian and Turkish, he visited all the great co1uts of Eluope
betoaehand, urging them to create an autonomous neutral state 1015‘A1n1e11ia, as they had
done with success for the Lebanon. In London he became acquainted with Gladstone; but
Gladstone was then only the blazing ﬁ1e11ra11d which had kindled the hart of llngland, and,
in the Congless itself Khrimian could gain nothing for his people beyond the promises of
Article (31,5 pledging the Pow'e1s, and especially England, to hold the Kmds in check and
enforce Turkey’s deﬁnite reforms. It is needless to say that none of these promises and
pledges were observed. Beaconstield returned to London amid shouts of“ Peace with Honor,”
and Armenia was left to stew.

So it went on. Detained in Constantinople as 111 1sone1 banished to Jerusalem for
1ebellion, and ﬁnally chosen Katholikos, or head of his Church a1id 1‘lce, by his own people, he
maintained the hopeless contest. Y car by year the 11 0e increased, till 111' the last incalculable
C1in1e(1894-1896), the Aimeniaus wele slaughteied like sheep from the Bosporus to Lake

