32

Van, and the lowest estimate counted the murdered dead at 103,000. Gladstone made the
last great speech of his heroic life. England attempted some kind of protest. But rather
than join the Liberal demand for action, Lord ltosebery left his party for .private leisure, and
Russia, France, and Germany combined to secure immunity for the “great assassin.” It
was the lowest point of Europe’s shame.

Blow followed blow. Hardly had the remnant of the Armenian people escaped from
massacre when their Clmrch fell under the brutal domination of Russia. Plehve ordained its
dest1uetion and Golit/in was sent to Tiﬂis as <rover1ior- general to earn itout. Church
propertv to the value of Co‘, 000, 000 was sei/ed by violence, the Katholikos resolutely refusing
to gixe 111) the keys of the safe where the title deeds were kept (June, 1003). For two years
the5 Ixussian ofﬁcials play ed with the revenues, retaining eighty per cent for their own
advantage. l’111t in the 111 an ti1nc11ssassinati0n had rid the earth of Plehve, and the over-
uhehnian defeats of Russia 111 Manchur 111 were attl ibuted to the \r menian curse. G1 11dt1111'rly
the Chmch property was restored, in utter chaos, and for the moment it is Russia 5 policy to
favor the Armenians as a balance against the Georgians, whom the St Pete1sburg government
is now determined to destroy

Such was the past upon which the worn old man, stretched 011 his monastic bed, looked
back that. winter's morning. Singleness of aim has its reward in spiritual peace, but of the
future he was not hopeful. He no longer even contemplated an autonomous Armenia, either
on Turkish terri't01y 01' on Russian. On the Russian side of the frontier the Armenian
villages were too scattered, too much interspersed with (xeorgiaus and Tartari', to allow
of autonomy. 0n the Turkish side, he thought, massacre and exile had now left too few of
the race to form any kind of community. Indeed, for the last twelve y'ea1s the Armenian
villagers have been crawling over the foot of Ararat by thousands ayear to escape the Kurds,
and every morning they (ome and stand in fresh groups of pink and blue rags outside the
monastery door where the head of their Church and race lies dving. They stand there 111
mute appeal, 11s Is saw them, possessing nothing in the world buto the variegated tatters
that cover them, and their faith in their Katholikos. Slowly they are drafted away into
’liﬂis, Baku, or their Caucasian villages, but nowhere are they welcomed.

Some of the bishops and monks, who form a council round their chief, still look for
Europe’s interference, and trust that the solemn pledges taken by England and other Powers
at Berlin may be fulﬁlled. The Bishop of Eiivan, for instances still labors for the appoint-
ment of a Christian governor over the district marked by the ill- omened names of V1,m Bitlis,
and Elzeronm. l also found that even among the Georgians there was a large party willing
to concede all the frontier district from E1ivan to Karsf \1l'1e1c Armenian villages are thickest,
as an autonomous Armenian province, in the happy day when the Caucasus “ins federal
autonomy But the majority ofthe Armenian clergy who hithelto have led the people, are
beginning to acquiesce in the hopelessness of political change, and are now limiting their
efforts to education and ind11st1'1es.One cannot yet say how far their inﬂuence may be
surpassed 111 the growing revolutionary parties of “ The Bell” and “The Flag.” Of these,
the Social Democratic “ bBell ” follows the usual impracticable and pedantic creed ofSt1Marx.
'lhe “Flag,” or party of Nationalist Democrats, is at present dominant, and at 11 great
assembly held in Eriv an last August (1906) they adopted a programme ofland nationalizat,ion
universal snti' age and education? an eight- hour day, and the control of the Church pioperty
bv elected lay men lfthe Russian revolution makes good progress, they will naturally unite
with the Georgian Federalists, on whom the best hopes of the country are set.

“ hatever may be the political future of the Armenians, they seem likely to survive for
manyg generations yet as a race, held together by language and religion Except the Jews,
there 1s, I think, no parallel to such a survival. It is a thousand years since they could be

