3-1

THE ARMENIAN MASSACRES AND THE
ARMENIAN PEOPLE.

During a period extending over thirty years the civilized world has
heard of Turkish Massacres of Armenians. Massacres of a nature so
ferocious and diabolical, so hideous and revolting, that no pen could adequate-
ly describe their horrors

\Vriting in 1896, Mr. james Bryce, in his supplementary chapter to the
4th edition of his book “Transcaucasia and Ararat ” makes the following
grave comment 1—-

“Twenty years is a short space in the life of a nation. But these
twenty years have been ﬁlled with sufferings for the Armenian Christians
greater than their ancestors had to endure during the eight centuries that
have passed since the first Turkish Conquest ofArmenia. They have been
years ofmisery, slaughter, martyrdom, agony, despair.”

And the years that have followed from 1896 to 1909 have had the
same tale of woe to unfold; a tale of horrors such as have never been sur-
passed in the history of nations.

The opinion of the Turkish Pasha, “The way to get rid of the Armenian
Question, is to get rid ofthe Armenians ” was followed by “ le Sultan Rouge,”
and that the monster and assassin who sat on the Turkish throne from I876
to 1909 was not able to accomplish this policy to the bitter end of complete
extermination, was no doubt due to the grit and stubborn endurance of the
victims.

A Turkish writer has made the remark, ,“ There are Armenians, but
there is no Armenia.” This assertion would be true if meant in a political
sense only, for of all civilized races on earth, Armenians are politically one
ofthe most forlorn, but the country has not been wiped off the map. It still
occupies the geographical place it has held since history has been written.
The land of the Euphrates and Tigris, that Araxes valley, where, as simple
and primitive Armenians will to this day assert in unshaken belief, God made
man in His own image, and the country round the base of Ararat, where the
generations of men once more began to people the earth.

Once the land of Ararat was an independent kingdom until the tide of
victory rolled over it and conquered its independence. Hemmed round by
three Great Empires, Russian, Turkish and Persian, the unfortunate geo—
graphical position of the country became the cause of its people’s ruin.

It is of bitter interest to Armenians to know that Ararat is the point
where the three Empires, Russian,.Turkish and Persian, meet, whilst the

