40

two, the wall ofiron that rises between them is the position ofwoman. The
Armenian has accepted whole-heartedly the position in which woman has
been placed by the Great Founder of his faith. For seventeen hundred
years unremittingly since Christianity was revived in Armenia by Gregory
the Illuminator, the Christian law with regard to the position of woman has
moulded the thought of the nation, it has left its impress on the nation, and
it is this vital and essential difference between the law of Mahommed and the
law of Christ that like a two-edged sword has cleared apart Christian
Armenian from Moslem Turk and Persian.

If “East is East, and \Vest is \Vest ” it is on account of the social plane
on which woman stands, a social plane that is never so degraded in any
corner of Asia, as it is in the countries where the law of Mahommed governs.

The Armenians in Asiatic Turkey are scattered and diSpersed among
Turks and other antagonistic races ; they are without any military force or
organization to wrest autonomy from the military and governing power.
That Europe should aid their endeavours, or that Turkey should make them
a free gift of autonomy, are both of them absolutely out of the question.
Then what remains for us?

To hold to our own nationality and to be subject—Subject to Russia,
subject to Turkey, subject to Persia—\Vliat shall it proﬁt us? \Vhat will
it proﬁt? \Vhat doth it proﬁt us? Our strong, clever, energetic men, our
beautiful, intelligent women, when neither chance nor Opportunity can enable
our ﬁnest and best to reach the higher rungs of the world’s ladder, and
when as a subject people we must ever remain hewers of wood and drawers
of water, even our Aivasowskis and our Melikoffs have been known to the
world as Russians, not as Armenians. Have we a chance of bursting the
letters? Have we strength to break the chains? Can we reach the goal
toward which, bleeding and torn, we have been striving, and still are striving?
These are questions which we must ask ourselves ; looking them soberly in
the face.

But this is not enough: if we must persist in holding to our our national-
ity, we must look into ourselves, we must search out and probe our national
failings and Our national weaknesses, and ﬁnd out in what essential character-
istics we are wanting as a nation, and so build up national character. Let
us weigh ourselyes in the balance, and supply what in us is found wanting.

In the period ofless than a decade a Great Power has risen in the
Orient. The people ofa small island empire with an empty Treasury have
beaten successfully and disastrously a colossal empire of whom the Powers
of Europe had stood in awe, and against whom not one had ventured single-
handed to engage.

