47

'Church, but was also a fearless patriot—a distinguished linguist, an eloquent preacher. and a
thorough gentleman in every sense of the word. When peace was concluded between Turkev
and Russia, and preparations were being made for the Berlin Congress, it was he who, in
spite of the feared fanatical uprising of the Turks, threw prudence to the winds and took
a step that will long be remembered in the annals of Armenian history.

At the first meeting of the Berlin Congress the Turkish delegates were tlntuderstruck to
learn from official sources that an Armenian delegation had arrived from Constantinople, sent
by Monseigucur Nerces, the Patriarch, their object being to request the signatory Powers of
the Berlin Treaty to force a guarantee from the Turkish Government to make certain
important improvements in Armenia.

Abdul Hamid and his advisers were furious at this affront, and Monseigneur Ncrecs was
summoned to the Palace. It is said that when he received the summons he simply smiled
and asked one of of his curates to read the Burial Service to him, as he did not expect to
return alive. However, he went. No one has ever heard what passed between the Sultan
and himself at the interview; sufiiCe it to say that he immediately summoned the Armenian
General Assembly and tendered his resignation. This was not accepted by the Assembly,
and, amidst enthusiastic cheers, he was carried back to his apartments at the Patriarchate.
Meanwhile a peremptory order reached him. signed by the Sultan, to recall the Armenian
delegation from Berlin. This Monseigneur Varjabétiau point-blank refused to do, and retired
to his private residence at Haskeuy, a village on the Golden Horn. The success of the dele-
gation, however, did not come up to his expectations. The Armenians, as it happened, could
not be heard, but they were so far successful as to have an article inserted in the treaty.

The Sultan and his advisers never forgave the Patriarch this, though they could not
openly do anything to him on account of his enormous popularity. Time passed on, and to
all appearance the incident was forgotten, but it was not so. One summer afternoon a most
cordial invitation was sent by a very high dignitary ofthc Palace, requesting the Archbishop
to dine with him infbrmally. An invitation of this kind could not very well be refused, so
the Archbishop, accompanied only by a body-servant named Val-tan, repaired to the l’asha’s
house. The Pasha received him at the door and escorted the visitor with much ceremony and
extreme courtesy to a private apartment of the salamlik of his house (the men’s quarters),
where dinner was served. The geniality displayed by his host dispelled any fears that the
Archbishop might have had as to his personal safety.

After dinner, as usual, coffee was served. Now, this serving of the coffee is rather a
ceremonial acc‘brding to high Turkish etiquette, and it is not unusal for guests to bring their
own tchooboukdur (the servant who carries his master’s pipe and pouch and also superintends
the making of his coffee). The Archbishop was presented with a “ tchoohouk ” (pipe) filled
and lighted for smoking, and a servant followed with coffee. The Archbishop accepted both
with due compliments to his host, and took a sip at his coffee. Just at that moment the
heavy Curtains over the doorway were thrown apart, revealing the ghastly pale face of his
servant Vartan, who cried, in Armenian, in a voice trembling with emotion, “ )[onseigueur,
I did not brew the coffee! ”

This was enough for the Archbishop; he pretended to be startled and spilt the coffee, but,
alas! he had already drunk a small quantity of it. anwhile a scuflle was going on behind
thepm'tiere, where his poor servant Vartau was paying the penalty of his devotion to his
master. Concerning Vartan’s whereabouts or his ultimate end nothing was ever made public
—-the poor fellow simply vanished. Monseigncur Varjabetian, after a short interval thanked
the Pasha for his generous and kind hospitality and took his departure. 0n the way home he
was taken violently ill and a doctor was hastily summoned. The Patriarch took to his bed,
and lost all his hair through the effects of the poison. Then, one morning, when a servant

