5-1

Can the Armenians hope now for any change in their condition under
Turkish rule? To this question, we must answer an emphatic No l

The causes that must operate against any change are many and deep-
seated. In the ﬁrst place it cannot be expected that a few Turks of liberal
ideas (or it may be French polished) at Constantinople, are going to change
the thought and character of the nation. The characteristics of a people
change very slowly, ifthey ever change at all, and the predominant national
traits of the many-blooded modern Turk have been shown to the world to-
be, cruelty and fanaticism, combined with a ﬁerce sensuality; and what is
more than all, and which has to be remembered niOst, is, that they are a
people accustomed to the unbridled gratiﬁcation of their worst passions.

The ethnographic traits of the Turkman which history bears out, are
wildness and ﬁerceness, and it would not be inCorrect to argue that with the
instincts of his primitive ancestors have been assimilated the many cross
currents that run in his veins, into all of which has been infused the
doctrines ofthe religion of the sword, a religion which does not make for
the peace or well being of mankind; a religion, also, which assigning one of
the two sexes t0 the degraded position of being created solely for the gross-
pleasure of the other, does not make for the exaltation of mankind.

To quote again the eminent authority previously referred to: "No
Mahommedan race or dynasty has ever shown itself able to govern well
even subjects of its own religion, while to extend equal rights to subjects of
a different creed is forbidden by the very law of its being.”

Not the Jewish conceit proclaiming itself God's elect and chosen, and,
originating the name “heathen ” which it scorned. Not the Christian conceit
emanating from the Jewish source, and laying the flattering unction to its
soul of superiority over the “heathen ” of its own time. Not the unbending
caste exclusiveness of the Brahman across whose path even the shadow of
the despised Sudra falling would be deemed deﬁlement. Not any of these,
can equal the intolerant religious pride of the Mahommedan, or reach the
pinnacle of religious self-sufﬁciency on which he has seated himself. To be
a Mahommedan, is enough—Cam Sit/ﬁt.

To any one who has familiar acquaintance with Mahommedans, and
intimate with Mahommedan thought, one fact must strike itself most forcibly,
and that is, the Mahommedan is above all things a Mahommedan. His
religion is the paramount question in his life, and remains its predominating
feature above everything else. This should not be surprising, since to the

“ faithful” Paradise is secured, and all crimes and transgressions against.
“ unbelievers ” absolved.

