60

victims in thy Yildiz Kiosk, found its way to thy treacherous heart. N0
poisoned cup of coffee like the countless cups brewed in thy palaces trickled
down thy throat to end thy vampire existence.

Thou hast lived! Protected from the Nemesis of thy crimes by the
jealousies and rivalries of great powers which thou artfully played one against
another; by the combined forces of religion and plunder which thou cunningly
wielded into one. Even so thou livest ! Peerless living example in the
civilized twentieth century of the Triumph of Crime.

L’AVENIR.

In the foregoing pages I have directed my humble efforts to sketch out
what the Powers of Europe have done in the past, and how their actions
have reflected on my unfortunate race.

It is considered good policy now by a certain class of European writers
to ascribe all the horrors of the Armenian Massacres to Hamid the despot,
to represent him as a tyrant as unassailable and unconquerable as he was
implacable, in short as a sort of superhuman being who swept everything
before him to the consummation ofhis own despotic will. The reason for
this is not difﬁcult to perceive. They would fain disavow the part Europe
has played in the tragedy, and to do this successfully it becomes necessary
also to present Turkey to the world now as a paradise (from whence the
tyrant once removed) peopled only by saints and angels; so we have also
many roseate colored word pictures of Constitutional Turkey.

The murders, deportations and imprisonments of the Turkish revolu-
tionaries, or more correctly reformers, were undoubtedly the sole work of
Abdul Hamid and his palace clique, but Abdul and his minions could not
have carried out that hellish work of wholesale extermination of the
Armenians without the perpetration and participation of the Turkish
people. It is true the massacres were originated and organized in the
Palace, the Palace clique stirred up religious fanaticism and race hatred, but
the co-operation ofthe people was necessary ; and the people co-operated
in order to plunder and enrich themselves with the worldly goods that the
Armenians always knew how to acquire by their own industry and toil ; the
appeal to their marauding and bestial instincts met with a ready response.
It was moreover easy work for a race ofbrigands, especially as their numbers
exceeded their victims by about ten to one and who were practically unarmed.

