THE ORIGIN OF TIIIZ ARMENIANS—TIIIE INTRODUC—
TION 017 CHRISTIANITY INTO ARMENIA—
DECLINE & GRAND REVIVAL.

“ God shall enlarge Japhet and he shall dwell in the tents ofShem, and
Canaan shall be his servant.”

For the interpretation of this blessing of Noah's to his eldest son, and
of how it may or may not have met with its [ulﬁlmennl shall leave to
theologians to discuss, and only record it here as a quotation from Genesis.
Beyond the story of his connection with the flood, and this blessing with
which his father blessed him, and the genealogy of his sons, we read nothing
more in Genesis, ofjaphet, this mighty father ofthe Caucasian race.

The genealogy in Genesis runs thus :

“The sons of Japhet, Gomer and Magog and Madai, and Javan, and
Tubal, and Meschech, and Tiras

“And the sons of Gomer : Ashkenaz and Riphath and Togarmah.
" And the sons Javan ; Elishah and Tarshish, Kittini and Dodamin.

“By these were the isles ofthe Gentiles divided in their lands; every
one after his tongue, alter their families, in their nations."

Only the names of the three sons of Gomer, and the four sons of
Javan are given in Genesis, and by these we are told were the isles of the
Gentiles divided. So much for Genesis.

Later history records that these Gentiles spread themselves over part
of that stretch of terra ﬁrma which now goes by the name ofEurope, develop-
ing their own families, and their own nations, and originating their own
tongues, and also they spread themselves over other parts of the surface of
the globe, populating where they could, ruling where they could.

But through the roll of centuries which lost themselves into the (light of
thousand years, one branch of the sons of Japhet kept themselves on the land
where Noah planted his vineyard, and round the base of that mountain from
whence his descendants began to spread and people the earth.

Tradition has woven a romance round the names oftowns and villages
in Armenia. “No aighee" (Noah’s vineyard) is the name of a Village
supposed to be the place where the patriarch planted his vme; and.

