[57
I will again pass over the periods ruled by the successors of Amasia,

and relate the story of King Aram, who ended his brilliant reign in BC.
1796 after ruling over Armenia fifty-eight years.

He was a great and powerful prince, and extended his dominions, and
grew to be so mighty in battle that the neighbouring nations called his
country Aramia and the people were called Aramians, such names as
Armenia or Armenians being no doubt later corruptions.

The ﬁrst victory ofAram was over Neuchar king of Media, whom he
took prisoner and put to death, and made a large part of the country of the
defeated prince tributary to his own. The second victory of Aram was over
Barsham king of Babylon, whom also he took prisoner and put to death.
The next victory was over the king of Cappadocia ; the army of the
Cappadocians was pursued to the very shores of the Mediterranean, and the
whole of Cappadocia fell into the hands of Aram BC. 1796. Also Ninus
king of Assyria, at one time an eager enemy, awed by the victories ofAram,
sought to cultivate his friendship.

No doubt if the volumes and scripts of paper or parchment of the famous
Alexandrian library, which burned for six months as fuel 111 the four thousand
baths of the city had escaped that most atrocious act of vandalism, and been
preserved instead, vast treasures of knowledge now lost to us concerning
the ancient kingdoms of \Vestern Asia might be known in our day; and also
when the tide Dof Islam victory rolled over the kingdom of Armenia, how
much of the story and history of the people was lost and destroy ed along
with the destruction of their independence it would be difﬁcult now to calculate
or asse1t, but 111 taking up link by link of whateve1 knowledge has been left
to us, there seems to be grounds for supposing that the “A1amreans”
designated bx foreign uriters as “a people of Semitic race language and
religion, coming from Northern Arabia and settling 1n the 1egion between
thee western boundaries of Babylonia and the highlands of \Vestem Asia’ '
were no other than the Hai who under their King Aram had Spread theii
conquests and their kingdom into Mesopotamia and even to the shores of
the Mediterranean.

Herodotus also rather corroborates this conjecture when he includes
Northern Mesopotamia, together \1ith the mountainous country of Ararat,
unde1 the name of A1111enia, and in uniting of the Armenian boats that
brought merchandise to l1abylon, he ren1a1ksb that they were constructedi
Armenia, 2'71 Z/zepm'ts above 145.917 za.

Archaeological researches hav e laid the claim that the modern Armenians
are the descendants ofthe old Hittites , the modern Annenian being supposed

