CARNI VOROUS QUADRUPEDS.

 

DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES.

THAT there has hitherto existed no good book of Engravings of the noblcr wild animals,
to assist the progress of the student in that department of Art, is to be regretted. The talents
of Mr. JOHN SCOTT, brought into action by those of GILPIN, COOPER, and the REINAGLES,
have presented the public with excellent representations of the distinguished ornaments of the
turf: the sports of the ﬁeld, and the habits and manners of the canine race, were also duly
honoured: but of the ferocious TIGER tribe, and the lordly LION, we have nothing extant that
would bear critical inspection, beyond a few detached prints :—nothing like a collection of
ﬁgures, whose justness and accuracy of form, action, character, and expression, might be
relied on.

Does any reader imagine that the various Etchiugs which have been performed—chieﬂy
abroad—by Artists of no mean ability, maybe considered as exceptions? They are not exceptions:
or at best, the number which might be so regarded is but small, and those, for the most part, of
dimensions not accommodated to the drawer of the cabinet, or the shelf of the library.

But they are not objectionable on this ground alone. Speaking of them in the aggregate, the
heavier charge lies against them of being insufﬁcient to those purposes of taste and information
which are the ends of Art. Even those after TITIAN and after RUBENS (the latter of whom has
perhaps painted a greater number than any other of the old masters) are far more deﬁcient in
form, character, and expression, than is generally supposed, or than will be easily believed, by
those who have not actually compared them with the Lions, Leopards, and Tigers of Nature.
They have been taken too much on the credit which attaches to the great names of their authors.
—N or is this intended toimpugn the merits, as historical or poetical painters, of those distinguished
Artists, but simply as an assertion of truth. It is possible, that as a painter of allegory, RUBENS
might consider that strong infusion of human form, character, and expression, by which his Lions,
for example, are distinguished, as necessary, or conducive, to his allegorical purposes; or, it is pos-
sible that his knowledge of this animal may not have been thoroughly well-grounded, and that he
may have laboured under early prejudice of mind, or of vision, in this part of his education as a
Painter, and may not have seen Lions as they really are. This is what the writer is most inclined

to believe, (though not to insist) 5 for even in treating the subject of Daniel in the den of Lions—-
4 I

/ B

