2 CARNIVOROUS QUADRUPEDS.

the scene of which, by the way, he has not represented as a royal menagerie, but as a wild,
rocky cavern—his animals partake of the artiﬁcial character of which we cannot bring ourselves to
approve. -

Of this fact, however, we purpose to exhibit proof with our assertion. Improved versions, to
the best abilities of our Artists, of some of these Lions of RUBENS and the Assyrian king, will here
be introduced, which the reader, who pleases, may compare with the originals. Our second, third,
and fourth Plates are of the number.

The Lions of RUBENS are humanized. We do not intend to discuss at length whether the
ideality of allegorical painting required this: we only state the fact: yet the opinions which we
felt at liberty to form on the subject, we feel at liberty to utter. So much in apology for using the
licence of asserting that the heads of many of the Lions of RUBENS rather resemble those of frowning
01d gentlemen decorated with Ramillies wigs ; as if Nature’s journeymen had made mancs, and not
made them well. There is a profusion of ﬂowing and curling hair, which seems rather to solicit
the unguents of the perfumer, than to have endured the torrid heats of the desert, or the rough
storms of the forest. The shag of a Lion’s mane is a very different sort of thing.

However such dressed Lions may he thought to accord with Allegory, they are demonstrably
at variance with Nature. To be sure, what might become a Lion in the procession of the Cardinal
Virtues, might be rather unsuitable in his den, or within the precincts of those wild haunts, where he
is accustomed to roam in his natural state. \Ve have often read of the fabled Men-bulls, or (Mino-
taurs,) and we ﬁnd such on the coinage of Crete. These allegorical creatures of RUBENS, which,
alas ! have sometimes been quoted by Artists without half his genius, and placed in savage con-

 

ﬂicts, or beside their Britannias are a species of Men-lions. Placed among the Sabaean sculp-
tures, they might pass for incarnations of Sol in Leo 5 but would very ill pass for Leo alone.
Among the observers of this poetic improvement, or this natural and unpoetical deficiency, on
the part of RUBENS, TITIAN, J ULIO ROMANO, and other painters, both ancient and modern; and
of the consequent drsidcratmn on the part of the public, of a cabinet or library collection of the
nobler wild animals in a state of Nature, so as to answer the purposes of reference, while they con-
duced to the pleasures of Taste, were Mr. EDGAR SPILSBURY and Mr. THOMAS LANDSEER.
\Vhether or not the public “looked up to them for light” on that subject, (to use the language of
STERNE,) they thought the Public “deserved it 3” and they therefore, as the best practical means
of eliciting that light, ﬁrst copied the general forms and attitudes of most of the wild animals that
appear in this book, from the old masters—generally speaking, from works that are well known
—and then, went to Nature and corrected the details. They carried with them what, in those
ancient masters, was meritorious in composition, attitude and Chiaroscuro, and brought away,

to the best of their ability—superadding it to, and blending it with, the above~~accuracy of
detail.

