CARNIVOROUS QUADRUPEDS. 3

Every artist does best, that which he is best qualiﬁed and best disposed to do. In com-
pleting the number of plates that has been found necessary for the Work, Mr. EDWIN LANDSEER
has chosen to proceed toward the same purpose, upon a different principle. He has gone, without
any introductory medium, directly to the living animals, and has exhibited the savage manners and
habits of these quadrupeds, according to his own ideas and observations.

On the distinction between CHARACTER and EXPRESSION, we shall now deliver our opinion.
By the Character of an animal, we mean those permanencies of his look and features which he
always offers to view when in a placid, or unimpassioned state : by his Expression, the variations
of muscular action superinduced on character, to which he is liable, as the storms of passion sweep
by, and his mind becomes agitated by external circumstances acting on the ardours of his instinct.

The former, seems to hold its court in the solid and massy parts: the latter agitates, oft-
times rebelliously, the nerves and muscles. Character is ever present, both in the animal coun-
tenance, and in the “human face divine.” The most violent expression does not proscribe, or
obliterate, character. Individuality consists of it, as far as concerns external appearance , and it
forms the system of vowels of the language of Nature, without which no Expression could be.

thoever regards the faces of a ﬂock of Sheep, will see in them an inﬁnite variety of Character,
with very little Expression, and that little without diversity: and if we descend a step lower in
the scale of being, and contemplate the ﬁnny tribe, where Character is not wanting, we find no
Expression at all. Even Trees and inanimate objects, possess Character. \Ve recollect a poetical
friend of ours, now in Italy, saying that every tree and every rock had a faee—but of this we are
not so certain, though very certain, that there is enough of Character in rocks and trees, to make
a poet think so.

Character and Empression, in the carnivorous class of animals, to which we here solicit
attention, are always co-existent —- their proportions varying with the existing occasions—-in

pictorial exhibitions of such subjects.

No. II.

THERE is much Character, and little Expression, in the reposing Leopard with his sheathed
claws, which is shewn in the present engraving, copied by Mr. SPILSBURY from RIDINGER, and
corrected from Nature. BIDINGER was an artist of great power, who studied wild animals in
their sequestered haunts, as is shewn in his grand forest back-grounds, and who, generally
speaking, left little or no room for others to improve, except on some few of his inferibr works.
The present is an interesting and beautiful animal, yet -there is a latent capability of mischief
characterised in his countenance, and we might ask, in the language of Job, “Who shall dare to

rouse him up '2”

