CARNIVOROUS QUADRUPEDS.

C}!

No. VI.

IN this GROUP by MR. EDWIN LANDSEER there is much of violent animal Expression, and
Character fades before it, or rather, is absorbed in it. It tells a story of the past as well as the
present, and is pregnant with a catastrophe not difﬁcult to anticipate from the actions and
expressions of the parties engaged. A FAWN has been seized by a LEOPARD, who has been
despoiled of his prey by a more powerful TIGER. The Tiger in his ,turn becomes the victim of an
enraged LION. .. '

The expression of the wounded Leopard is that of painful suffering mingled with dread.
Together, they amount to agony. He shrieks while he submits. The Tiger is still enraged and
resisting, though astounded with the power and suddenness of the Lion’s attack. He is losing his
energy of resistance, and is beginning to feel that all resistance is vain. He roars with anguish 3
while his expression is that of terror, and indignation not yet subdued.

The Lion, who has just made his thundering spring, appears conscious of having fatally seized
his adversary, and luxuriates fearlessly in his victory; and with a powerful and just expression of
carnivorous enjoyment.—l\Ieanwhile the characters of the animals, severally, are faithfully and
speciﬁcally represented.

Although our main purpose be to exhibit rather a pictorial than a physiological view of the
subject: having descanted on the word Character, we shall probably be expected to add, at least
a word or two, on the leading characteristics of the carnivorous class of quadrnpeds.

The generic characters of the Feline, or Cat, kind, are easily enumerated in the concise
language of the naturalists. Their heads are round, their visages short: they have six cutting
teeth, and two canine, in either jaw: their tongues are aculeated, the prickles inclining backward ;
their claws sharp, hooked, and retractile 5 their ears small and acuminated; they have ﬁve toes on
each of the fore-feet, and four'only on those behind.

Of this genera of Cats, we ‘here exhibit the four principal species, Lions, Tigers, Leopards,
and Panthers, of which the Lion is justly placed at the head—at least, the unanimous voice of ages
has pronounced him to be the king of beasts, and we have enthroned him accordingly in our Title-
page, (No. I.) They form a tribe that is especially and properly Carvnirorous, being the only
class of quadrupeds that are exclusively ﬂesh-caters. Their jaws are very completely armed for
this purpose; their canine teeth being very long and angular, with the edges of the angles turned
toward the inside of their months 3 so that when theanimal has caused them to meet, or cross each
other in the ﬂesh of its prey, these formidable teeth will cut or tear a way through, by drawing
them back without opening his mouth.

Their claws, and the formation of their feet, too, are eminently conducive to their predacious

