8 CARNIVOROUS QUADRUPEDS.

the position of the head. In all gramnivorous animals, the skin of the head is closely attached to
the skull, and capable only of very limited motion: the eye is almost uniformly mild, and the lips

unmoved by passion.

“It is in carnivorous animals, with whose habits and manner of life, ferocity is instinctively
connectbd, as the great means of their subsistence, that rage is distinguished by the most
remarkable strength of expression. The eye-ball is terrible, and the retraction of the ﬂesh of the
lips indicates the most savage fury. But the ﬁrst, is merely the exerted attention of the animal ;
and the other a preparatory ‘exposure of the canine teeth. The great animals of prey —the Lion
and the Tiger
of ferociousness. \Vhen they fawn upon their keeper, there is no motion in their features that

 

are quite incapable of any other expression of feature, than this particular display

indicates affection.”
In this assertion, that the countenances of the great animals of prey are incapable of any

other than ferocious expression, we do not quite coincide with our learned physiologist. then
they fawn upon their keeper, we think that indications of affection are exhibited ; and ﬁnd
ourselves ready to ask what else than kindly expression is that “licking of the hand” which our
author has before mentioned. If, however, we should grant that they may not be capable of
affectionate expression toward their keeper, we can scarcely doubt that—toward their young—if
we could observe them in their wild state, and in their moments of playful intercourse and
enjoyment among each other-they are: at least, we think there are motions in their features that
indicate affection, as well as fear, enquiry, surprise, gratitude, pleasurable wantonness, and some
other sentiments, or emotions. This is our conviction : at the same time, we perceive that the
range of their ferocious expression far exceeds the savage circle of their domestic charities. Are
not even the least of these observable in the habits and manners of the domestic Cat, who belongs
to the Tiger genera? But we have even seen a Tiger in his den, who looked good-natured enough
to be stroked and patted: and of the Lion, of whom MR. GRIFFITH relates the following anecdote,
what can be said or thought?

“Hearing some noise under his cage, the Lion passed his paw between the bars, and actually
hauled up his keeper who was cleaning beneath 5 but as soon as be perceived that he had thus ill
used his master, he instantly lay down upon his back in an attitude of complete submission.”

Or what can be said of the circumstance mentioned by SENECA (of which he was personally
witness), of a Lion, to whom a man, who had formerly been his keeper, was exposed for destruction
in the amphitheatre at Rome 5 and who was not only instantly recognised, but defended and
protected by the grateful beast?—Or of the story related by DR. SOUTHEY, of the Lion who had
broken loose, submitting to the Cid, and allowing himself to be led back peaceably to his place of

conﬁnement?

Could any painter of talent proceed to represent either of these facts, without ﬁnding in the

