 

10 THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

 

belles of the tribe were not slow in discovering that, when arrayed
in ..ll the panoply of forest ﬁnery, a belt well drawn in, as shown in the
annexed illustration, served to display the ﬁgure to much greater advan-
tage than one carelessly or loosely adjusted. Here, then, we ﬁnd the
ﬁrst indication of the use of the corset as an article of becoming attire.
At the very ﬁrst dawn of civilisation there are distinct evidences of” the
use of contrivances for the reduction and formation of the female ﬁgure.
Researches among the ruins of Polenqui,.one of the mysterious forest cities
of South America, whose history is lost in remote antiquity, have brought
to light most singular evidences of the existence of a now forgotten
race. Amongst the works of art discovered there is a has-relief repre-
senting a female ﬁgure, which, in addition to a profusion of massive
ornaments, wears a complicated and elaborate waist-bandage, which,
by a system of circular and transverse folding and looping, conﬁnes the
waist from just below the ribs to the hips as ﬁrmly and compactly as
the most unyielding corset of the present day.

At the period of the discovery of some of the islands of the
Eastern Archipelago, it was found customary for all young females to
wear a peculiar kind of corset, formed of spirally-arranged rattan
cane, and this, when once put on, was not removed until the celebration
of the marriage ceremony. Such races as were slowly advancing in the
march of civilisation, after discovery by the early navigators, became
more and more accustomed to the use of clothing, to adjust and retain
which, waistbands would become essentially requisite. These, when
made sufﬁciently broad to ﬁt without undue friction, and stiff enough to
prevent folding together in the act of stooping, sitting, or moving
about, at once became in effect corsets, and suggested to the minds
of the ingenious a system of cutting and ﬁtting so as more perfectly to
adapt them to the ﬁgure of the wearer. The modes of fastening, as
we shall see, have been various, from the simple sewing together with
the lace to the costly buckle and jewelled loop and stud.

 

 

