I4. THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

 

 

which, by their strong pressure, prevent the expansion of the chest; this
corset also conﬁnes the bust from the collar-bones to the waist by means
of a cord which passes through leather rings. They even wear it
during the night, and only take it off when worn out, to put on another
quite as small.” He then Speaks of the daughters of Osman Oglow,
and says, “Their ﬁgures were tightened in an extraordinary degree, and
their anterie: were clasped from the throat downwards by silver plates.”

These plates are not only ornamental, but being ﬁrmly sewn to the
two busks in front of the corset, and being longest at the top and
narrowest at the waist, when clasped, as shown in the accompanying
illustration, any change in ﬁt or adjustment is rendered impossible. It
will be seen on examination that at each side of the bottom of the
corsage is a large round plate or boss of ornamental silver These
serve as Clasps for the handsomely-mounted silver waist-belt, and by
their size and position serve to contrast with the waist, and make it
appear extremely small. That the elegancies of female attire have been
deeply studied even among the Tartars of the Crimea will be seen by
the following account, written by Madame de Hell, of her visit to
Princess Adel Beg, a celebrated Tartar beauty :—

“Admitted into a fairy apartment looking out on a terraced garden,
a curtain was suddenly raised at the end of the room, and a woman of
striking beauty entered, dressed in rich costume. She advanced to me
with an air of remarkable dignity, took both my hands, kissed me on
the two cheeks, and sat down beside me, making many demonstrations
of friendship. She wore a great deal of rouge; her eyelids were painted
black, and met over the nose, giving her countenance a certain sternness,
which, nevertheless, did not destroy its pleasing effect. A furred velvet
vest ﬁtted tight to her still elegant ﬁgure, and altogether her appear-
ance surpassed what I had conceived of her beauty. After some time,
when I offered to go, she checked me with a very graceful gesture, and
said eagerly, ‘Pastoi, pastoi,’ which is Russian for ‘Stay, stay,’ and

l____

 

 

