 

THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

 

clapped her hands several times. A young girl entered at the signal,
and by her mistress’s orders threw open a folding-door, and immediately
I was struck dumb with surprise and admiration by a most brilliant
apparition. Imagine, reader, the most exquisite sultanas of whom
poetry and painting have ever tried to convey an idea, and still your
conception will fall far short of the enchanting models I had then before
me. There were three of them, all equally graceful and beautiful.
They were clad in tunics of crimson brocade, adorned in front with
broad gold lace. The tunics were open, and disclosed beneath them
cashmere robes with very tight sleeves, terminating in gold fringes.
The youngest wore a tunic of azure-blue brocade, with silver ornaments;
this was the only difference between her dress and that of her sisters.
All three had magniﬁcent black hair escaping in countless tresses from a
fez of silver ﬁligree, set like a diadem over their ivory foreheads.
They wore gold-embroidered slippers and wide trousers drawn close at
the ankle. I had never beheld skins so dazzlingly fair, eyelashes so
long, or so delicate a bloom of youth.”

The Hindoos subject the ﬁgures of their dancing-girls and future
belles to a system of very careful training; in all their statues, from those
of remote antiquity, to be seen in the great cave temples of Carlee Elanra,
and Elephanta, to those of comparatively modern date, the long and
slender waist is invariably associated with other attributes of their
standard of beauty. “Thurida,” the daughter of Brahama,. is thus
described by a Hindoo writer :—

“This girl” (he informs us) “ was of a yellow colour, and had a nose
like the ﬂower of resamum; her legs were taper, like the plantain tree;
her eyes large, like the principal leaf of the lotus; her eyebrows ex-
tended to her ears; her lips were red, and like the young leaves of the
mango tree; her face was like the full moon; her voice like the sound
of the cuckoo; her arms reached to her knees; her throat was like that
of a pigeon; her loins narrow, like those of a lion; her hair hung in

L__ __.u

 

