THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE. ‘25

 

elaborately-ornamented waistbelts in general use, and by their arrange-
ment it will be seen that they were so worn as to show the waist off to
the best advantage. The accompanying illustrations represent Egyptian
ladies of distinction. The dress in the ﬁrst, it will be observed, is worn
long. A sort of transparent mantle covers and gives an appearance
of width to the shoulders, whilst a coloured sash, after binding the
waist, is knotted in front, and the ends allowed to fall freely over the
front of the dress, much as we have seen it worn in our own time; and
it is most remarkable that, although there is no evidence to show the use
of crinoline by the ladies of old Egypt, the lower border of the skirt, in
some instances, appears distended as in the prior illustration; whilst in
others, as shown in the second engraving, the dress is made to ﬁt the
lower portion of the ﬁgure closely, barely affording scope for the movement
of the legs in walking. How often these arrangements of dress have
been in turn adopted and discarded will be seen as our work proceeds.

The following extract from Fullam will show that Fashion within the
shadow of the Pyramids, in the days of the Pharaohs, reigned with
power as potent and supreme as that which she exercises in the imperial
palaces of Paris and Vienna at the present day:—

“The women of Egypt early paid considerable attention to their
toilet. Their dress, according to Herodotus, consisted usually of but
one garment, though a second was often added. Among the upper
orders the favourite attire was a petticoat tied round the waist with a
gay sash, and worn under a robe of ﬁne linen or a sort of Chintz
variously coloured, and made large and loose, with wide sleeves, the
band being fastened in front just under the bust. Their feet were
incased in sandals, the rudiment of the present Eastern slipper, which
they resembled also in their embroidery and design. Their persons and
apparel, in conformity with Oriental taste in all ages, were profusely
decked with ornaments, ‘jewels of silver and jewels of gold,’ with
precious gems of extraordinary size, of which imitations, hardly dis-

 

 

