26 THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

tinguishable from the real stones, were within the reach of the huimblest
classes, whose passion for ﬁnery could not be surpassed by their superiors.
The richly carved and embroidered sandals, tied over the instep with
tassels of gold, were surmounted by gold anklets or bangles, which, as
well as the bracelets encircling the wrist, sparkled with rare gems; and
necklaces of gold or of beautiful beads, with a pendant of amethysts or
pearls, hung from the neck. Almost every ﬁnger was jewelled, and the
ring ﬁnger in particular was usually allotted several rings, while massive
earrings shaped like hoops, or sometimes taking the form of a jewelled
asp or of a dragon, adorned the ears. Gloves were used at a very early
date, and among the other imperishable relics of that olden time the
tombs of Egypt have rendered up to us a pair of striped linen mittens,
which once covered the hands of a Theban lady.

“ Women of quality inclosed their hair with a band of gold, from which
a ﬂower drooped over the forehead, while the hair fell in long plaits to
the bosom, and behind streamed down the back to the waist. The side
hair was secured by combs made of polished wood or by a gold pin, and
perhaps was sOmetimes adorned, like the brow, with a favourite ﬂower.
The toilet was furnished with a brazen mirror, polished to such a degree
as to reﬂect every lineament of the face, and the belles of Egypt, as
ladies of the present day may imagine, spent no small portion of their
time with this faithful counsellor. The boudoirs were not devoid of an
air of luxury and reﬁnement particularly congenial to a modern imagina—
tion. A stand near the unglazed window supported vases of ﬂowers,
which ﬁlled the room with delicious odours; a soft carpet overspread
the ﬂoor; two or three richly-carved chairs and an embroidered
fauteuil afforded easy and inviting seats; and the lotus and papyrus
were frescoed on the walls. Besides the brazen mirror, other acces-
sories of the toilet were arranged on the ebony table, and boxes and
caskets grotesquely carved, some containing jewels, others furnished
with oils and ointments, took their place with quaintly-cut smelling-

 

