 

 

THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

 

 

saddle their backs and straitlace their waists to make them well-shaped.
If any chance to grow a little plumper than the rest, they presently cry,
‘ She’s an hostess,’ and then her allowance must be shortened, and though
she be naturally fat and lusty, yet by her dieting she is made as
slender as a broomstick. By this means one woodcock or another is
caught in their springe.”

Strutt informs us that the Roman women, married as well as
unmarried, used girdles, and besides them they sometimes wore a broad
swath or bandage round their breasts, called strophium, which seems to
have answered the purpose of the bodice or stays, and had a buckle or
bandage on the left shoulder, and that the mitra or girdle of the Greeks
probably resembled the strophium of the Romans. The annexed
illustration represents a lady of Ancient Greece. He also speaks of
the Muses as being described by Hesiod as being girt with golden
“mitrer,” and goes on to inform us that Theocritus in one of his
pastorals introduces a damsel complaining to a shepherd of his rudeness,
saying he had loosened her mitra or girdle, and tells her he means to
‘ dedicate the same to Venus. So it will be seen that the waist and its
adornment were considered at that early period of the world’s history
matters of no ordinary importance, and whether the term strophium,
zone, mitra, custula, stays, bodice, or corset is made use of, the end
sought to be obtained by their aid was the same.

Constant mention is made by early writers of the pep/us as being a
very elegant garment, and there are notices of it as far back as the
Trojan war, and the ladies of Troy appear to have generally worn it.
On the authority of Strutt, it may be stated to have been “a thin light
mantle worn by Grecian ladies above the tunic ;” and we read that
Antinous presented to Penelope a beautiful large and variegated
peplus, having twelve buckles of gold, with tongues neatly curved.
The peplus, however, was a very splendid part of the lady’s dress, and
it is rarely mentioned by Homer without some epithet to distinguish it

