[.__

34. THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

as such. He calls it the variegated peplus and the painted peplus,
alluding to ornamental decorations either interwoven or worked with the
needle upon it, which consisted not only in diversity of colours, but of
ﬂowers, foliage, and other kinds of imagery, and sometimes he styles it
the aft purple pep/m, which was then valuable on account of the excel-
lence of the colour. We learn from a variety of sources that the early

' Roman and Grecian ladies indulged in almost unprecedented luxury in
matters of personal adornment, as the following extract from Fullam
will show :—

“The toilet of a Roman lady involved an elaborate and very costly
process. It commenced at night, when the face, supposed to have been
tarnished by exposure, was overlaid with a poultice, composed of boiled
or moistened ﬂour spread on with the ﬁngers. Poppaean unguents
sealed the lips, and the body was profusely rubbed with Cerona oint-
ment. In the morning the poultice and unguents were washed off; a
bath of asses’ milk imparted a delicate whiteness to the skin, and the
pale face was freshened and revived with enamel. The full eyelids,
which the Roman lady still knows so well how to use—-now suddenly
raising them, to reveal a glance of surprise or of melting tenderness,
now letting them drop like a veil over the lustrous eyes—the full,
rounded eyelids were coloured within, and a needle dipped in jetty dye
gave length and sphericity to the eyebrows. The forehead was encircled
by a wreath or ﬁllet fastened in the luxuriant hair which rose in front
in a pyramidal pile formed of successive ranges of curls, and giving the
appearance of more than ordinary height.

“ ‘ So high she builds her head, she seems to be,
View her in front, a tall Andromache;

But walk all round her, and you’ll quickly ﬁnd
She’s not so great a personage behind.’

“Roman ladies frequented the public baths, and it was not unusual
for dames of the highest rank to resort to these lavatories in the dead

 

