 

. THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE. 35

hour of the night. Seated in a palanquin or sedan borne by sturdy
chairmen, and preceded by slaves bearing ﬂambeaux, they made their
way through the deserted streets, delighted to arouse and alarm their
neighbours. A close chair conveyed the patrician matron to the spec-
tacles and shows, to which she always repaired in great state, surrounded
by her servants and slaves, the dependants of her husband, and the
clients of her house, all wearing the badge of the particular faction she
espoused. The factions of the circus were four in number, and were
distinguished by their respective colours of blue, green, white, and red,
to which Domitian, who was a zealous patron of the Circensian games,
added the less popular hues of gold and purple. But the spectators
generally attached themselves either to the blue or the green, and the
latter was the chief favourite, numbering among its adherents emperors
and empresses, senators, knights, and noble dames, as well as the great
mass of the people, who, when their champions were defeated, Carried
their partisanship to such an extreme that the streets were repeatedly
deluged with the blood of the blues, and more than once the safety of
the state was imperilled by these disgraceful commotions.

“The public walks and gardens were a fashionable resort of the
Roman ladies. There they presented themselves in rich costume, which
bore testimony alike to the wealth of their husbands and their own taste.
A yellow tire or hood partly covered, but did not conceal, their piled
hair; their vest of muslin or sarcenet, clasped with gems, was draped
with a murry-coloured robe descending to their high-heeled Greek
boots; necklaces of emerald hung from their swan-like necks, and
jewelled earrings from their ears; diamonds glittered on their ﬁngers,
and their dazzling complexions were shielded from the sun by a parasol.”

The researches of Strutt show us that the shoes of the ladies, and
especially among the Romans, proved a very expensive part of the dress.
In general they were white, but persons of opulence did not conﬁne
themselves to any colour. We ﬁnd them black, scarlet, purple, yellow,

