 

 

42 THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

 

British Museum bears on it the strange and anomalous ﬁgure represented
in the annexed illustration. Opinions vary somewhat as to whether
its origin might not have been Italian, but we see no reason for adopting
this view, and consider it as of decidedly home production. It will be
seen that the shoulder, upper part of the arm, and ﬁgure are those of a
well-formed female, who wears an unmistakable corset, tightly laced, and
stiffened by two busks in front, from one of which the lace, with a tag
at the end, depends. The head, wings, tail, feet, and claws are all those
of a demon or ﬁend. The drapery is worn so long as to render large
knots in it requisite to prevent dragging on the ground. The ring held
in the left claw is of gold, and probably intended to represent a massive
and costly bracelet. Produced, as this MS. appears to have been,
during the reign of Edward the Confessor, there is little doubt that
it was a severe monkish satire on the prevailing fashion, and a most
ungallant warning to the male sex that alabaster shoulders and slender
waists were too often associated with attributes of a rather brimstone
character, and that an inordinate love of long, trailing garments and
ornaments of precious metals were snares and enticements of a sinister
nature. Many of the ﬁgures to be found on ancient MSS. after this
period show by their contour that the corset was worn beneath the
drapery, and Strutt, whose work was published in 1796, thus writes of
the customs relating to dress in the period following shortly after :—“ In
the thirteenth century, and probably much prior to that period, a long
and slender waist was considered by our ancestors as a criterion of
elegance in the female form. We ought not, therefore, to wonder if it
be proved that the tight lacing and compressing of the body was
practised by the ladies even in early times, and especially by such
of them as were inclined to be corpulent.” He then, in order to
show at vhat an early date of the history of this country a conﬁrmed
taste for small waists existed, quotes from a very ancient poem, entitled
Laszal, in which the Lady Triamore, daughter of the King of the

 

