THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE. 49

having only her kirtle upon her back. John Gower, however, who
wrote at about the same period as Chaucer, thus describes a company'oF
ladies. They were, says he, “clothed all alike, in kirtles with rich capes
or mantles, parti-coloured, white, and blue, embroidered all over with
various devices.” Their bodies are described as being long and small,
and they had crowns of gold upon their heads, as though each of them
had been a queen. We ﬁnd that the tight-laced young ladies of the
court of the Lady Triamore “had mantles 6f green-coloured velvet,
handsomely bordered with gold, and lined with rich furs. Their heads
were neatly attired in kerchiefs, and were ornamented with cut work and
richly-striped wires of gold, and upon their kerchiefs they had.each of
them a pretty coronal, embellished with sixty gems or more ;” and of
their pretty mistress it is said in the same poem, that her cheeks were as
red as the rose when it ﬁrst blossoms. Her hair shone upon her head
like golden wire, falling beneath a crown of gold richly ornamented with
precious stones. Her vesture was purple, and her mantle, lined with white
ermine, was also elegantly furred with the same. The Princess Blanche,
the daughter of Edward 111., the subject of the annexed illustration,
appears to have copied closely the dress above described, and, like the
maids of honour of the Lady Triamore herself, she is not only richly
habited but thoroughly well-laced as well. Thus we see, in the year
1361, the full inﬂuence of the corset on the costume of that period.
There is another poem, said to be more ancient than even Laszal,
which, no doubt, "served to give a tone and direction \to the fashions of
times following after. Here we ﬁnd a beautiful lady described as
wearing a splendid girdle of beaten gold, embellished with rubies and
emeralds, about her middle small.

Gower, too, when describing a lover who is in the act of admiring
his mistress, thus writes :—

“He seeth hir shape forthwith, all
Hir bodye round, hir middle small.”

