 

54 THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

 

often very richly ornamented with furs and. costly needlework. As
fashion changed, dresses were made with open fronts, so as to be worn
over the surcoat without altogether concealing it. A portrait of Marie
d’Anjou, Qieen of France, shows this arrangement of costume. The waist
appears very tightly laced, and the body of the surcoat much resembles the
modern bodice, but is made by stiffening and cut to perform the part of
a very strong and efﬁcient corset. Until the termination of the fourteenth
century very little change appears to have been made either in costume or
the treatment of the ﬁgure, but at the commencement of the ﬁfteenth
century, when such noble families as the Medici, Este, and Visconti
established fashions and styles of costume for themselves, each house
vied with the other in the splendour of their apparel. The great
masters of the period, by painting ideal compositions, also gave a marked
tone to the increasing taste for dress. The costume of an Italian duchess,
whose portrait is to be seen in the Academy at Pisa, has been thus
described :—“ The headdress is a gold coronet, the chemisette is ﬁnely
interwoven with gold, the under-dress is black, the square bodice being
bordered with white beads, the over-dress is gold brocade, the sides are
open, and fastened together again with gold agrafes; the loose sleeves,
like the chemisette, are of golden tissue, fastened to the shoulders with
agrafes. The under-sleeves, which are of peculiar construction, and are
visible, are crimson velvet, and reach to the centre of the hand. They
are cut Out at the wrists, and white puﬁings of the same material as
the chemisette protrude through the openings.” In both France and
Germany a great many strange freaks of fashion appear to have been
practised about this time. The tight, harlequin-like dress was adopted
by the gentlemen, whilst the long trains again stirred the ire of royalty.
We ﬁnd Albert of Saxony issuing the following laws :——“No wives or
daughters of knights are to wear dresses exceeding one yard and a-half
in length, no spangles in their caps, nor high frills round their throats.”
During the reign of the Dauphin in France many changes in dress were

 

