 

60 THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

CHAPTER IV.

The bonnet :3 canon and sugarloaf headdress—-Headdress of the women of Normandy at
the present day—Odd dress of King Louis XL—Return of Charles VIII. from
Naples—A golden time for tailors and milliners—General change of fashion—
Costumes of the time of Francis I. of France and Maximilian of Germany—-
General use of pins in France and England—Masks worn in France—Establishment
of the empire of Fashion in France—The puffed or 601517?an sleeves of the reign of
Henry II.—-The Bernaise dress—Costume of the unfortunate Marie Stuart—Rich
dresses and long slender waists of the period—The tight—lacing of Henry III. of
France—The Emperor Joseph of Austria, his edict forbidding the use of stays, and
how the ladies regarded it—Queen Catherine de Medici and Queen Elizabeth of
England—The severe form of Corsets worn in both France and England—The corp:
—Steel Corset covers of the period—Royal standard of fashionable slenderness——-The
lawn mffs of Queen Bess—The art of starching—Voluminous nether-garments worn
by the gentlemen of the period—Fashions of the ladies of Venice—Philip Stubs on
the ruff—Queen Elizabeth’s collection of false hair—Stubs furious at the fashions
of ladies—King James and his fondness for dress and fashion—Restrictions and
sumptuary laws regarding dress——Side-arms of the period.

ROM about 1380 to some time afterwards headdresses of most
singular form of construction were in general wear in fashionable
circles. One of these, the bonnet (2 amen, was introduced by Isabel of
Bavaria. The “sugar-loaf” headdress was also in high esteem, and con-
sidered especially becoming and attractive. The accompanying illustration
faithfully represents both of these. The latter in a modiﬁed form is still
worn by the women of Normandy. Throughout the reign of Louis XI.
dress continued to be most sumptuous in its character. Velvet was
profusely worn, with costly precious stones encircling the trimmings.
Sumptuary laws were issued right and left, with a View to the correction
of so much extravagance, whilst the king himself wore a battered,
shabby old felt cap, with a bordering of leaden ﬁgures of the Virgin

 

