PREFACE—INTRODUCTION.

We give BARNABAS HORTON as the Pnfaa’ and Introduction to this
little volume of Chronicles. He was probably the son of Joseph
Horton, of Leicestershire, England, and born in the little hamlet of
Mousely of that shire. Of his history before he came to America very
little is known. He came over in the ship “Swallow," in 1633—38.
He landed at Hampton, Mass. How long he remained at Hampton
is not known. But in 1640 we ﬁnd him with his wife and two chil—
dren in New Haven, Conn. , in company with the Rev. John Youngs, ‘
William Welles, Esq., Peter Halloek, John Tuthill, Richard Terry,
Thomas Mapes, Matthias Corwin, Robert Ackerly, Jacob Corey, John
Conklin, Isaac Arnold, and John Budd, and on the 21st day of
Oct., 1640, assisted by the venerable Rev. John Davenport and Gov.
Eaton, they organized themselves into a Congregational Church, and
sailed to the east end of Long Island, now Southold. They had all
been members of Puritan churches in England, and all had families
With them except Peter Hallock. They doubtless had been on the
island previous to this time and looked out their homes. On nearing
the shore they cast lots to decide who should ﬁrst set foot on the land.
The lot fell on Peter Hallock, and the place where he stepped upon
the land has ever since been known as Hallock’s Landing.

On coming ashore, they all knelt down and engaged in prayer,
Peter Hallock leading, as had been determined by the lot. These
were the ﬁrst persons of any civilized nation that had ever attempted
to settle on the east end of Long Island. Sec Grﬁ/z’r fam‘mzl.

Barnabas Horton was a man of deep—toned piety, and a warm advo-
cate of civil and religious freedom. He was one of the most promi-
nent and influential men of-Southold. He was for many years a
magistrate, and several times a member of the General Court at New
Haven and Harford. He built the ﬁrst framed dwelling—house ever
erected on the east of Long Island, and that house is still (1875)
standing and occupied. It is a shingle-house, that is, shingles are
used for weather-boards, and the sides have never been reshingled,
and the roof but once, according to the statement of Jonathan Gold=
smith Horton, the last Horton occupant of the old house.

 

