 

VI PM a [a—l/I/razz’I/(fAHI.

It is said that Barnabas Horton I. was large in stature, and of a
ruddy complexion, and of ﬁne social qualities.

His tombstone is of English blue marble, ﬁve feet long and about
three feet wide. It is placed horizontally over the grave. The stone
was re-lettered about ﬁfty or sixty years ago by Jonathan G. Horton.
It is elevated about eighteen inches from the ground, on a good stone
base. The original base was of brick, but it had all crumbled down
many years ago. The present base was put under the stone at the
time it was re-lettered by Jonathan G. Horton.

The inscription surrounds the border of the stone, and reads as
follows:

“Here lieth buried the body,of MR. BARNABAS HORTON, who was born at
Mousely, Leicestershire, Old England, and died at Southold, on the 13th day of
July, 1680, aged 80 years.”

In the centre of the stone we find the Epitaph, as follows:

I
“ Here lies my body tombed in dust
’Till Christ shall come to raise it with the just;
My soul ascended to the throne of God,
\Vhere with sweet Jesus now I make abode:
Then hasten after me, my dearest wife,
To be partaker of this blessed life;
And you, dear children, all follow the Lord,
Hear and obey His public sacred word;
And in your houses call upon His name,
For oft I have advised you to the same :
Then God will bless you with your children all,
And to this blessed place He will you call.”

Heb. xi : 4.——“ He being dead, yet Speaketh.”

It is said that this epitaph was Written by himself, and that it, to-
gether with the inscription, date of his death excepted,~was all put
upon the stone before he died. He was the only one of the original
thirteen who brought his tombstone with him, and this fact seems to
indicate a commendable desire to see that his name and memory
should not perish from the earth.

NOTE.—VVe have followed 627' 12’: yaw/72rd in relation to the thirteen old Puri-
tans who ﬁrst settled in Southold. But C. B. Moore, Rap, of New York City, who
has been more thorough and faithful than any other person, in studying the history

