PFC/(HT.—//I//‘()(/Il1‘/l-()ll. VII

and genealogy of the early settlers of Southold—examining all the rivals and mil/r,
and other authentic documents to be found, and also copying the inscriptions from
every headstone, not only in Southold, but over nearly the whole Island—makes it
very evident that some of those named were not there at so early 21 (late, and he
also says that Prfer IIalIock, who is named as one of the thirteen, was the grandson
of the Puritan llalloelc who settled at Southold, and whose Christian name was
\ViIIiam. Mr. Moore is one of the best genealogists of the country, and in relation
to Long Island, he is the best authority extant.

 

MORE ABOUT THE OLD HOUSE.

It will be seen by the engraving that the old house is double. The
western part is that which was built by Barnabas in 1659—60. The
east or two—story part was built by Jonathan 1., about 1682. The upper
room of this part was used for a court—house for nearly twenty years,
as we learn from Thompson’s History of Long Island, and some of
the old benches used when it was a court-house are still preserved.
The old “castle,” as Jonathan G Horton, its last Horton occupant,
used to call it, is in all probability the oldest wood house in America.
.I know of no dwelling—house of any kind, stone or brick, now stand-
ing, that can date back as far as this venerable old mansion. There
were a few huts on the east of Long Island previous to I64o—two or
three it is said on Shelter Island. But these, as well as those built by
the Puritans, immediately on their settlement in Southold, soon all
passed away. Not a vestige of any of the ﬁrst generation buildings
can be found except this one, It remained for the house that Barnabas
built to survive the wreck of ages, and to stand to—day as a noble
representative of the dwellings of two hundred and ﬁfteen years ago.
But the old house stands to-day not only as peering above all others
by its age, but also by its occupancy. It is not very often that we ﬁnd
two generations of the same name, living and dying in the same house—-
rarely ﬁnd three. But here we have six generations in succession, all
bearing the Horton name, living and dying in the same house, and
all born in it except Barnabas I., and his son Jonathan. We may go
to the castles and palaces of the old world, and search long and dili-
gently, and fail to ﬁnd a parallel case.

W'ith a few repairs, the old castle may yet stand for generations far
in the future.

It requires some thought and reflection to realize the lapse of time
since the old house was built. See the old Puritan himself there
twenty years; then his son Jonathan, twenty-eight years; and then
Jonathan, In, about sixty years; and next Lawrence and his son Jona-

