X P/‘(fara—/I//mzz’z/(fz'mz.

Southold. It is still a long old gun, though not as long as it was
once, as it was bursted by overloading on one Thanksgiving Day, and
about eight or ten inches of the muzzle cut off.

The CASK, in which be packed a portion of his household goods,
and brought over with him, is still in existence, and is owned by
Gilbert W. Horton, of Bay View, Southold. It is doubly historic
from the fact that when the British invaded Long Island it was ﬁlled
with wheat and buried, thus securing the wheat from the foraging
parties of the British army. It is made of solid oak—hoops and all-—
the hoops are square and about an inch and a quarter thick—only one
hoop missing. It is used for a grain cask, and will hold about ﬁfteen
bushels. It was formerly called “uncle Barney’s money barrel,” as
romance had it, that he brought it over full of gold and silver.

His WALKING STAFF is still preserved. It is made of the Yew tree
wood, has a ﬁne ivory head with the letters “J. H.” and the ﬁgures
“ 1617” in apparently golden specks indented into it, from which it
would seem that it once belonged to his father, and that J. H. (Joseph
Horton) were his initials. It is now owned by Silas R. Horton, of
Goshen, N. Y.

Many other mementos of the old Puritan are in existence, some of
them in the Long Island Historical Rooms, Brooklyn, N. Y.

THE HORTON NANIE—FIRST-SETTLERS IN THIs COUNTRY.

The word Horton in the Anglo—Saxon language means an enclosure,
or garden of vegetables. It is said to be derived from or! and [1:72,
on‘, meaning plant, and 12m, enclosed. The name is evidently of
Latin origin, and has been known in England ever since the conquest
of Caesar.

The Hortons in England, and their descendants in America, have
generally been cultivators of the soil. They have been found almost
universally in the middle class of society, and it is not known that
any royal blood has ever coursed in their veins. They are, and always
have been, prodzwers rather than [o/zszwzers, and for industry, integ-
rity, and piety, they will lose nothing in a comparison with the re-
nowned families of either the new or the old world.

The ﬁrst of the family who emigrated to this country, of Whom we
have any authentic record, came over from England 1633 to 1638.
Thomas, Jeremiah, and Barnabas, were among the early emigrants,
and old tradition says they were brothers. Thomas came over in the
“Mary cma’folm,” in 1633, settled permanently in Springﬁeld, Mass.

