.l’nfrm’. ~— III/rm/nr/lbn. X 1

Jeremiah also settled in Massachusetts. There was a John Horton in
New York, in 1645, but no one has been found claiming descent from

him. He probably returned to England.
It is not known from what place in England either Thomas or Jere-

miah came, nor is there any certain evidence that they were brothers
of Barnabas, but the three coming over about the same time would
favor the tradition that they were brothers.

The Head Quarters of Caesar’s army was near the present Lez'tmicr,
the principal town of that county, and the Horton name has been
known there to the reinotest period of any authentic records. This
fact, together with the name itself, favors the idea that the family was
of Roman origin. The name in olden time was frequently written
Orton, and it is highly probable, that the Ortons and Hortons were
originally from the same family, and perhaps also the Nortons.

ANTIQUITY OF THE HORTON FAMILY.

The antiquity of the Horton Family is established by the fact, that
I one Robert De Horton, manumitted a bondman to his manor of
Horton, long before the time of Henry Laiiey, Earl of Lincoln, who
died in 1310. It is also ascertained that the Hortons had a manor-
house in Great Horton, with a mill and certain deniesne lands there-
with belonging, at a very remote period.

William Horton, Esq., of Frith House, in Barksland, Halifax,

descended from the above-mentioned Robert, married Elizabeth,
daughter of Thomas Hanson, Esq, of Toothill, had issue and died

about 1640, viz.:

I. \Villiam, of Barkisland, or Bark Island Hall, who purchased in the 15th of
Charles I., the estate of Howroyde, was born about 1576.
2. Joseph, born about I 578,—8217‘1’2’5 Landed sz‘ry, vol. 1,13. 345.

It is held that this Joseph settled in Mousely, Leicester C0., and
was the father of Barnabas Horton. It is highly probable that Bar-
nabas was not the oldest son, and not inheriting real estate, may have
been one reason for his emigrating to America.

It is known that Capt. Jeremy Horton, 18 Aug, 1626, was the
master and owner of the ship “Swallow,” of Barnstable, and that he
made voyages to New England, in 1633 and 1638, and in a subsequent
voyage he was shipwrecked and several lives lost—the crew and master
came to Boston, but the vessel was lost.

Capt. Roger Horton, about this time, had a prisoner delivered to

