[’ny’zn‘c. —]/1trmz’//rlimz. XI 1 I

Page 535. Southold Estcmation for ye year I683. fungi/hm Iforlan, £440, 135.
you'll/a [Ia/1012, £173. Cain/I HEW/an, £350. Benjamin 11071071, ,6 267 .

Documentary History, vol. I, page 669. A list of names of old
and young, Christians and heathens, ffrernen and servants, white and
black, inhabittinge within the township of Southold, 1698:

Jonathan Horton, Bethia Horton, Jonathan Horton, Jr., \Villiam Horton, James
Horton, Mohetabel Horton, Mary Horton, Abigail Horton, Patience Horton, Joshua
Horton, Mary Horton, Ephraim Horton, Mary Horton, Jr., Bathia Horton, Elizabeth
Horton, Zeruiah Horton, Caleb Horton, Sarah Horton, widow, Penelope Horton,
Mary Horton, widow, Caleb Horton, Jonathan Horton, David, Barnabas, and Phebe

Horton, Joshua Horton, Jr., Eliza Horton, Eliza Horton, Jr., Patience Horton,
Deborah Horton, Martha Horton, Bethia Horton, Barnabas Horton.

Documentary History, vol. iii., p. 855.—Capt. James Horton, I775,
takes a census of slaves in VVestchester County, New York, in which
he sets down to himself I male and 1 female negro.

Same vol., p. 863.—Rev. Simon Horton, I755, has I female and 2
male slaves.

Documentary History, vol. iv., 1). zoo—List of freeholders 27 Feb-

ruary, I 737.

Jonathan and Joseph Horton, Joshua, Jr., and Jonathan, Jr., David and Caleb
Horton.

NOTE.

The reader will see at a glance the plan of this book. We com—
mence with the Christian name, Then follows the parentage, genea—
logical data, &c., and then the Christian names of the children and
order of births. In many of the early families the exact order of
births cannot be ascertained; but it has been approximated as nearly
as possible. The lineage is given in connection with the ﬁrst member
of the family. The Roman numerals indicate the order of births.
The sons and daughters of the old Puritan, Barnabas, constitute the
second generation, but they are spoken by way of eminence as Joseph
1., Hannah 1., &c. The book contains much repetition, but none
too much to make it plain and easy to study.

This little book contains the chronicles of only about one-half of
the Horton families looked up. Those whose genealogical data are
given only in a small part, and those whose correct lineage has not
been satisfactorily ascertained, are not included in this book.

