32 Smart/z General/'07:. —fose]5/z 1.

He possesses ﬁne sociai qualities, and, since retiring from business, he '
occasionally amuses himself in hunting and ﬁshing. His integrity,
industry and great business capacities, during the active part of his
life, rendered him a most valuable acquisition to the community in
which he carried on his business, and the articles he manufactured
were of sterling value to the farming interests of the country.

Mr. Horton, on sending me his photograph for an engraving,
accompanied it with the following very modest and unassuming sketch
of his life :

“I was born in Yorktown, Westchester County, New York, 15
September, 1806. My parents were farmers, in moderate circum~
stances. I remained with them until I was seventeen, working on the
farm in the summer, and going to school in the winter, thus acquiring
merely a common-school education. When I was seventeen years old,
at the suggestion of my parents, I decided to learn the blacksmith
trade, and commenced the business at'once, and served an appren-
ticeship for several years. On the 17th of October, 1827, I married
Phebe Tompkins, and on the 9th of March, 1820, we moved to Peeks-
kill Village, Where we have resided ever since. I bought some pro-
perty, and set up the blacksmithing business. I succeeded well in the
business. In the spring of 1835 I entered into a co—partnership busi—
ness with Mr. Truman Minor, under the ﬁrm name of ‘ Minor & Hor—
ton,’ and went into the foundry business, manufacturing agricultural
implements, principally ploughs and plough—castings. Our business
increased rapidly, and paid us well. We continued partners for
twenty years. In 1855 Mr. Minor retired from business, and I took
in Mr. Geo. W. Depeu as a partner, and about two years afterwards,
we admitted each of us a son, and the ﬁrm then became, ‘ Horton,
Depeu & Sons.’ Our manufactured articles were sold in nearly every
State in the Union, and also in many foreign countries.

“ In 1862 we all sold out to a stock company, formed for that pur-
pose. Having been in active business for thirty years, I now retired.
In the spring of 1855 I was elected Supervisor of the town of Cort-
landt, and I represented that town in the Board of Supervisors for ﬁve
years in succession.

“ In the winter of 1858, I was a member of the Legislature from
this Assembly District. For many years I held the various ofﬁces of
our village, but of late have declined ofﬁcial stations, preferring the
enjoyments of private life.”

Mr. Horton is not a public professor of Christianity, but is a gen—
tleman of correct moral deportment, and very temperate in his habits.

