12 SEAT WEAVING

second peg. This operation is repeated until all holes have been
utilized on the two parallel rails, except those on the corners.-
Thruout the seven operations it is necessary that the cane be kev
from twisting by drawing the remaining part of the strand th
thumb and foreﬁnger.

Step 2. The second step is identical with the ﬁrst, with the dif-
ference that the other two parallel rails are used, and that the

canes run over the ﬁrst set of parallel
:% canes. If the ﬁrst strand of cane ha
not been entirely used up in the ﬁrs
no. 5. METHOD or TYIXG . .
ENDS 0F CANE. step, the remainder 15 used to begik

the second step.

Step 3. This step is a repetition of the ﬁrst two. The canes 0
this series run over the ﬁrst and second series and parallel with tha
ﬁrst. As each strand is used up bind the end by pulling it under
a cane, crossing from one hole to another underneath the frame
and cutting of? about M in. from the cane. Fig. 5 shows how thi:
binding is done. The loose end at the starting point is tied in thi
way, and all subsequent ones should be tied as they come, thu.
avoiding interference by many pegs, and insuring neat binding.

Step 4. The actual weaving begins with this step. It may b
done entirely by hand, without resort to the needle, but it is slovJ
work. The needle should be used. Start at a hole next to a corner
on either rail that has been used but onre, working from caned side
toward the open frame. Go over and under the strands necessary
to form the weave, turning the needle from side to side in order to
catch the canes behind the point. When across thread the needle
with the strand and pull thru, being careful to avoid a twist. Pull
the end down thru the hole, pairing the canes. Pull the cane up
thru the next hole; then start the needle from the opposite side of
the frame and repeat the ﬁrst operation, thus pairing another set
of canes. Continue until all canes are paired and all holes used.
Soak the w0ven cane with a wet sponge, and with two pegs
straighten the strands of cane and force all pairs together. Small,

