CANING SUGGESTIONS 17

holes are bored and 'utilized in the cane weaving. These are not
absolutely necessary; in fact caned areas on many pieces of period
and modern furniture do not utilize corner holes. In such instances
two diagonal strands are run in each hole on either side of the
corner. A comparison of the areas, the one employing a corner
hole, and the other not, will lead the observer to conclude that the
former appears complete while the latter appears unﬁnished.

It is frequently necessary or desirable
to cover up the cane on the back or inside ’
of an article. This is true of places ex- /
posed to view, and is especially advisable / A /

on such pieces of furniture as the wing-
This chair FIG. 8. SKETCH or sun?

T0 COVER CAKE ENDS,

back chair shown in Fig. 7.
of \Villiam and BIary design was made
in a school shop, is hand caned, and of mahogany. The exposed
cane is covered with strips of mahogany % in. thick and I in. wide
in which a groove %; in. deep and % in. wide has been run. This
groove may be made with saw, chisel, or combination plane. Fig. 8
shows a sketch of such a Strip. It makes a neat, pleasing cover.
)Iany pieces of so-called expensive furniture have ragged, exposed
caning. This is unsightly and is not to be commended.

\Vherever it is found desirable to leave cane natural, it is neces-
sary that the frame be stained before caning is begun. Box fuming
will not permanently color cane. Oil stains make no appreciable
impression if rubbed off at once. But water, acid, and alcohol
stains produce decided colors. If the worker desires to color the
cane approximately the same shade as the article, the caning may
be done on the white wood and the entire article stained at the one
operation. Cane may be shellacked or varnished or left natural, _
as desired.

Irregular Areas.—Fig. 9 shows a close View of the back of the
chair illustrated in Fig. 7. This is a typical example of an irregular—
shaped area for caning. The principles of weaving remain the

