56 SEAT WEAVING

Primitive Methods.—Brieﬁy the primitive process of convert-
ing the rattan, or raw material, into cane and reeds, or the ﬁnished
product, is this: The rattan stems are thoroly dried or seasoned,
and the nodules are pared off with a peculiar native knife. Then the
rattan is sorted into sizes and selection made as to grade. The sort-
ing is based upon external color and diameter of the rattan. The
rattan is then immersed in water, and the stem is rubbed vigorously
with sand and cocoanut husks to remove dirt and foreign substances.
It is then bleached by means of sulphur fumes, either in the stem or
after the peel and core have been prepared.

The method of preparing the peel and core is this: The peel, or
outer covering, is removed with a heavy knife; it is then stripped to
selected thicknesses and widths by drawing it by hand thru two
knives set at required distances apart. This peel is commercially
called cane. The core is then stripped into as many strands as
necessary, depending upon the diameter of the cores required.
These are rounded by drawing them thru a sheet‘of tin or iron
perforated with holes of different diameters. The rounded cores
are called reeds.

Considerable rattan is still converted into the ﬁnished products
by hand processes thru these laborious stages. Machines have been
perfected which do practically the entire work. Particularly have
the Germans brought this industry to a perfected state. Still in
various sections of India, China, and the Philippines hand working
of rattan is a thriving industry; an industry seemingly peculiarly
adapted to the natives. The Philippine method of preparing the
raw material varies somewhat from the Chinese method in that the
natives do not bleach the rattan.

Reed may be procured in large or small hanks, in coils and in
bundles, with the cost determined by weight. Schools generally
will find it advantageous to buy it in small hanks, because of ease in
handling and for economic reasons. Round reeds are shown
three-fourths size in Fig. 4.9, from No. 0 to and including No. 7,
also winding, half-round and flat reeds. Winding reed is thin and

