58 SEAT WEAVING

4 hours. Remove it from the tub and wash thoroly in running
water. The best way to do this is to lay the reed on an inclined
surface and turn a forceful stream of water upon it. Chloride of
lime has a bad effect upon the hands in that it makes them sore and
tender, so care must be taken to properly rinse the reed. A little
tallow rubbed over the hands will materially offset the tendency to
tenderness, and generally keep them in good condition.

Staining—Bleached reed takes stain much more readily and
evenly than does the natural or unbleached. It may be stained any
color with prepared stains, but ordinarily these leave the reed
muddy in appearance due primarily to the difficulty in brushing in
or wiping off the stain in the recesses which weaving leaves. Per-
haps the best agent for coloring reed, and at least a very desirable
one, especially after it has been woven, is naptha. The preparation
of the stain and the process of coloring is as follows: Obtain the
necessary amount and variety of colors ground in oil; mix the re-
quired colors with a little naptha; then to determine the shade of
color test with a reed. Reed absorbs a given amount of color,
therefore the shade will prove out practically the same when tested
with a small quantity of naptha, as when tried out with a greater
amount. Add the required amount of naptha to the solution, avoid-
ing thinningtoo much; otherwise the color produced will be “sickly”
in appearance. Five pounds of color to about 3 gallons of naptha
will prove about the right ratio. For instance, to obtain a rich nut
brown mix I pound of chrome yellow and 5 pounds of burnt umber
with a small amount of naptha. Stir until the colors are liquid,
then gradually add 4 gallons or so of naptha, and stir well. The
intensity of the brown may be Varied by using more or less chrome
yellow.

Coiled banks of reed may be immersed in the solution, immedi-
ately withdrawn and hung to drain dry above the receptacle, thus
permitting surplus stain to drain back into it. The stain may be
used repeatedly, and as it is very volatile it should be kept in a
tightly corked red can when not in use. It is also highly inflam-

