REED AND SPLIN'I‘ WEAVING 59

mable, and should be used in a room in which there is free Circula-
tion of air. If colors have been mixed properly and thinned to the
right consistency, the reed will dry rapidly and the color will be
sharp and clear, free from muddy effects.

A woven article such as a basket or woven top footstool may be
dipped, or the color poured over and allowed to drip dry. In some
instances it is good policy to wipe surplus stain off lightly. Then,
in the case of the footstool or similar project, if the worker so
desires he may stain the wood a darker shade than the top with a
prepared stain. Reed is very effective without stain; many of the
stools shown herewith are left natural. Reed may be shellacked or
varnished. Because of its porosity it soils very easily unless some
ﬁnishing agent is used, and a good grade of elastic varnish is recom-
mended as a finish, especially when the woven article is subject to
severe use.

Other Materials.—Reed is not the only good medium adapted
to weaving, either in correlation with wood or when used alone.
On the stools illustrated several other materials have been used,‘
as inner hickory bark and Indian splints and fiber. Binding cane,
rope, and even willow may be utilized with success. Paper ﬁber
was discussed in detail in Chapter V and needs no elaboration.
Fig. 60 shows a stool partly woven with this serviceable material.
Suﬂicient to say that this ﬁber adapts itself admirably to almost
all work where reed is commonly employed, and in many instances
is, commercially, supplanting reed.

Inner hickory bark may be obtained of manufacturers of rustic
furniture either directly or indirectly. They may be obtained ﬁrst
hand if hickory trees grow in the locality, thus enhancing the edu-
cational value of weaving. In the spring or early summer when
the sap is up and the bark slips easily, a hickory tree may be cut
down, and the rough outer bark shaved with a draw knife from
the top of the log the full length of the trunk, leaving a surface
from 8 in. to 10 in. wide. With a heavy knife split the inner bark
on either side of the shaved strip; then beginning at one end peel

