11

earth as other nations? Does Humanity,'does Christianity allow that tender
babes and children should be hideously and horribly mutilated and butchered
before the eyes of their mothers, or that the ears of mothers should be rent
with the cries of the dying agony of their. murdered children? Does
Humanity, does Christianity allow that helpless women should be forcibly
subjected to the most hideous, the most loathsome, the most revolting, and
the most cruel outrages? Does Humanity, does Christianity, allow all this?

Christian Governments have organized a Hague Conference of Peace
and Civilization, but they have. closed its doors to the cause of a bleeding
christian race groaning under the yoke of the cruellest oppressors that the
world has yet known. Christian men and women have held up their hands
in horror at the Indian Juggernauth ; but alas! the political wheels of
Christian Governments have been a Greater juggernauth for a helpless
christian race. It is by Christian Governments that “ we are made as the
ﬁlth of the world, and as the offscouring of all things unto this day.” It is
as ifthe answer to our groanings had been made by Christian Governments
in just these words :

“ \Ve know that you have had frightful grievances, such as have been
beyond the measure of human endurance. We know that since the Treaty
of Berlin your history has been written in blood and tears, as the history of
no other nation has been written before or now. We know that your women
are subjected to the most revolting and hideous agonies, and your babes
and children hounded to hideous deaths. \Ve know that the sum total of
your wrongs and sufferings is so great that the cry of its anguish IS piercing
the very heavens, but really, our political and commercial jealousies prevent;
and we each one of us being on the look out lest our separate political and
commercial interests in the Empire of your oppressors be endangered can-
not regard you. It may be the deadliest scandal of Christendom that we
Christian Powers should be all gathered together, one against another, in the
Empire of your Oppressors, as eagles gather together round a carcase; but
really there is no help for it; and if you must die hideously by a hellish
extermination, why then you must die, and we have to condone your hellish
extermination, fer in any case, each one of us must seCure his own political
and commercial interests in this same Empire of your Oppressors.”

In “ Transcaucasia and Ararat,” published by Mr. James Bryce in 1876,
there occurs in the chapter entitled “Some Political Reflections" the follow-
ing passage :

“ The attention of the “fest was so much drawn towards Herzegovina
and Bulgaria by the events of 1876 that the miseries of the Asiatic subjects

