like :1 r01111dl1011‘, 11 great h1'o1111e1e revealed the inw'ald spi1it’s intelligence and zeal 1111-
quenched. O11 his head was 11 close- ﬁtting cap of pulple vel1et.

Thus, near the end of last December, one of a century’s greatest 111e11——.\[g1'diteh
Khrimian, Katholikos ot'the Armenian Church, and soul of the Armenian people—slowly
approaching to death, lay in the ancient monastery called litehmiatzin, 01'“ The Only-Begotten
is Descended.” From the window of 11 neighboring room he might have looked across the
frost hound plain of the Araxcs, where the vines were now all cut close and buried for the
winter. Beyond the plain stood a dark mass of whirling snow and hurricane that hid the
cone of Ara1at And just beyond A1'a1at lies Lake \'a11,iast puddle of the Deluge. On the
shore of that lake, eigl1t_1-se1en years ago, Khrimian was born In 1820 the Turkish
Empire 1111s sti'll 111idiminished by sea or land; the Sultan still counted as one of the formid-
able Powers of Europe. It was four yea1s before Byron set out to deliver Greece f1om his
tyranny, and established for England a reputation as the generous champion of freedom—a
reputation which still rather pathetically survives throughout the Near East. Long and
stormy had been the life upon which the Katholikos now looked back, but not unhappy, for
from ﬁrst to last it had been inspired by one absorbing and unselﬁsh aim—the freedom and
regeneration of his people. It is true he had failed.

From his earliest years, when he had witnessed the terrors of Turkish oppresion in the
homes ofArmenians round Ararat, he was possessed by the spirit of 11atio11ality—such 11
spirit as only kindles in oppressed races, but dies away into easygoing tolerance among the
prosperous and contented of the world. He began as a poet, wandering far and wide through
the Turkish Persian, and Russian sections ofArmenia, visiting Constantinople and Jerusalem,
and recalling to his people by his poems the scenes and glories of their national histo1y.
Entering the menu astie 01"del after his 11 ife’ s death, he devoted himselfto the building of schools,
which he generously tl11e11 open to Kurds, the hereditary assassins 0f Armenians. For many
years, while Europe was occupied with Crimean wars, Austrian wars, or French and German
wars, we see him ceaselessly journeying from V1111 to Constantinople and through the
cities of Asia, unyielding in the contest, though continually defeated, his schools burned, his
printing-presses broken up, his sacred emblems of the Host hung in mockery round the necks
of dogs. \Vhen elected Armenian patriarch of Constantinople (1809), he was driven from
his oilice after four years.

But the cup of Turkish iniquity was filling. The pitilcss slaughte1 of Bulgalians and
Armenians alike was more than even the European Powers could stand. \ ith 1ried motives,
J1ussi11 sent her armies to ﬁght their way to the walls of Constantinople, and Khrimian found
himself summoned to plead his people’s cause before the Congress of Berlin. Though he
speaks no language but Armenian and Turkish, he visited all the great courts of Europe
beforehand, urging them to create an autonomous neutral state for Armenia, as they had
done with success for the Lebanon. In London he became acquainted with Gladstone; but
Gladstone was then only the blazing ﬁ1 eb1'111d which had kindled the hart of llngland, and,
in the Congless itself Khrimian could gain nothing for his people beyond the promises ot
Article (31,5 pledging the P0we1s, and especially England, to hold the Kurds in check and
enforce Turkey’s deﬁnite reforms. It is needless to say that none of these promises and
pledges were observed. Beaconstield returned to London amid shouts of“ Peace with Honor,”
and Armenia was left to stew.

So it went on. Detained in Constantinople as prisoner banished to Jerusalem fo1
1ebellion, and ﬁnally chosen Katholikos, or head of his Chu1eh a1id race, by his own people, he
maintained the hopelcs s contest. Y car by year the 11 0e ineleased, till 111' the last incalcnlable
crime (1894-1896), the Armenians we1e slaughtered like sheep from the Bosporus to Lake

