32

Van, and the lowest estimate counted the murdered dead at 103,000. Gladstone made the
last great speech of his heroic life. England attempted some kind of protest. But rather
than join the Liberal demand for action, Lord ltosebery left his party for .privatc leisure, and
Russia, France, and Germany combined to secure immunity for the “great assassin.” It
was the lowest point of Europe’s shame.

Blow followed blow. Hardly had the remnant of the Armenian people escaped from
massacre when their Clmreh fell under the brutal domination of Russia. Plehve ordained its
destruction, and Golit/in was sent to Tiﬂis as governor- general to car11' it out. Church
propertv to the value of EU, 000, 000 was sei/ed by violence, the Katholikos resolutely refusing
to gixc up the keys of the sate where the title deeds were kept (June, 1903). F01 two years
the0 Ixussian ofﬁcials play ed with the revenues, retaining eighty per cent for their own
advantage. But 111 the mean time assassination lrad rid the earth of Plehve, and the over-
11he1ming defeats of Russia in )lanehur in were attributed to the \r menian curse. G1 udannrly
the Church proper'ty was 1e~t01 ed, in utter chaos, and for the moment it is Russia 5 policy to
favor the Aimenians as a balance against the Georgians, whom the St Pcte1sburg government
is 11011' determined to destroy.

Such was the past upon which the worn old man, stretched 011 his monastic bed, looked
back that. winter's morning. Singleness of aim has its reward in spiritual peace, but of the
future he was not hopeful. He no longer even contemplated an autonomous Armenia, either
on Turkish territory or on Russian. On the It ussian side of the frontier the Armenian
villages were too scattered too much interspersed with (xeorgiaus and Tartars, to allow
of autonomy. On the Turkish side, he tlrorrght, massacre and exile had 1101\' left too few of
the race to form any kind of community. Indeed, for the last twelve years the Armenian
villagers have been crawling over the foot of Ararat by thousands aycar to escape the Kurds,
and e1ery morning they (ome and stand in fresh groups of pink and blue rags outside the
monastery door where the head of their Church and race lies dving. They stand there 111
mute appeal, as Is saw them, possessing nothing in the world bnto the variegated tattels
that cover them, and their faith in their Katholikos. Slowly they are drafted away into
’liﬂis, Baku, or their Caucasian villages, but nowhere are they welcorned.

Some of the bishops and monks, who form a council round their chief, still look for
Europe’s interference, and trust that the solemn pledges taken by England and other Powers
at Berlin may be fulﬁlled. The Bishop of Erivan, for instancc,s still labors f01 the appoint-
ment of a Christian governor over the district marked by the ill- omened names of V1,1n Bitlis,
and Elzeronm. I also found that even among the Ge01gians there was a large partv willing
to concede all the frontier district from Erivan to Karsf 11 here Armenian villages a1e thickest,
as an autonomous Armenian province, in the happy day when the Caucasus “ins federal
autonomy. But the majority ofthe Armenian clergy, who hitherto have led the people, are
beginning to acquiesce in the hopelessness of political change, and are now limiting their
efforts to education and industr res. One cannot yet say how far their inﬂuence may be
surpassed 111 the growing revolutionary parties of “ The Bell” and “The Flag. ” Of these,
the Social Democratic “ bBell ” follows the usual impracticable and pedantic creed ofSt. Marx.
'lhe “Flag,” or party of Nationalist Democrats, is at present dominant, and at 11 great
assembly held in Eriv an last August (1906) they adopted a programme ofland nationalizat,ion
universal sntf age and education? an cight- hour day, and the control of the Church property
by elected lay men. lfthe Russian revolution makes good progress, they will naturally unite
with the Georgian Federalists, on whom the best hopes of the country are set.

“ lratever may be the political future of the Armenians, they seem likely to survive for
manyg generations yet as .1 race, held together by language and religion Except the Jews,
there 1s, I think, no parallel to such a survival. It is a thousand years since they could he

