41

On the ﬁeld the ever victorious army of little Japan undermined Russia's
stronghold, and succeeded in driving back and ever driving back the ever
defeated and ever retreating army of colossal Russia. At sea the ever
victorious Japanese Fleet succeeded in completely annihilating the Russian
Fleet. It was war such as the world had never yet seen. The secret of
such astounding successes should be investigated. and here I beg leave to
quote from one of a series of articles in which I gave view to my opinions
during the Russo-Japanese \Var. “Japan may be likened to the bundle of
faggots in the fable ﬁrmly tied together; one faggot of larger dimensions in
the centre, the sovereign round whom the whole nation clusters, and all,
ruler and people tied together by adamantine bands of patriotism.”

These remarks of mine were based on observations of actual facts. In
national unity Japan stands as an object lesson to the world ; she furnishes
an example which the world needs to copy, and which a nation so politically
forlorn as ourselves more than any other needs to copy.

From the astounding success of Japan let us turn to the position the
Great Republic of the United States of America occupies in the world, and
take the lesson to heart of what Union can accomplish as we contrast their
present position with the position that the handful of puritan pilgrims occupied
when they ﬁrst landed on American soil not quite three hundred years ago.

National Unity is our greatest need ; it is the banner which we must
raise up over our national life. National Unity must be engraven on the
tablets of our minds and throb in the pulses of our hearts. There are
mountains of difﬁculties before us, and if ever we must reach the goal we
can only do so by being bound together like the bundle of faggots in the
fable, with no weakening or loosening of the bands. Then perhaps we
might once more be able to get an independent footing on the historical soil
of our fathers, and perhaps once more rally round our own flag. A Japan-
ese lives for the State, not for himself; we have no State for which to live,
but let us live for our communities whilst we keep the hope in our hearts
that communities grow into States.

\Ve have grit and endurance in an unparalleled degree, but these
characteristics will proﬁt us nothing if we are wanting in unity.

Let us remember that utterance of the Founder of our faith. In our
loyalty and allegiance to Him our life-blood has ﬂowed like the torrents of a
cataract, but we must remember His warning utterance :—

“\Vhat shall it proﬁt a man." \Vhat shall it proﬁt a nation. Unity is
the soul of a nation. Let us keep our soul and not lose it.

