46

Thus it became the fate of the unfortunate Armenians to be the bruised
and mangled shuttlecock of powerful bats.

Much has been written and much has been said by great authorities,
(far more comprehensively an l by pens much more forcible than my humble
efforts could aspire to reach) against the selﬁshness and callousness, the
inhumanity and cynicism of those great powers which have coldly looked on
and permitted the hellish atrocities and horrors of the Armenian Massacres.
The name of \Villiam Ewart Gladstone is loved and revered by Armenians
all over the world; but the thunderings of that veteran statesman and the
denouncing protests of those thoughtful men whose feelings of revolted
humanity have made themselves heard in sounding language, have fallen on
stony ground; they have been like the voices of men crying out in the wilder—
ness. Europe has turned a deaf ear to the condemnations of justice and
truth, even as she has turned a deaf ear to the voice ofRahel weeping for
.her slaughtered children.

The victim of Abdul Hamitl’s
revenge who was stealthily murdered
in his bed. He was elected Patriarch
in 1843 and held the highest place in
the esteem and affection ofhis people.
Mr. james Bryce gives his age at the
time of his election in 1843 as
seventy-three ; if this is correct then
he was over a hundred years old
when he was foully murdered. Mr.
Bryce writes of him as, “ the worthy
leader of his nation,” “ a man of
high character and great ability.”

A writer signing himselfBeyzadé
gives the following account of the
Patriarch’s tragic death in the July

number of “ The \Vide \Vorld : ’

The attempted poisoning and subsequent
death of Monseiuneui NercCs \ aliabétian,
the Aimenian I’utiialch 11nd Alchbisliop of
Constantinople, “-13 21 levolting illustiation
of the inhuman 21nd 11111112110115 tactics of the

NERSES VARJABETIAN. 3:iltliz Igiosk "‘-Can1:1rill21.” Monseigneur

_ . ’ 1\€I'CL‘S \ 211;]ztl1et12111 was not only one of the
(Armenian Patriarch 0f Constalltmoplel most prominent prelates of the Armenian

 

