58

not let me be told that one nation has no authority over another” was his
reply to the Armenian deputation which waited on him in 1894. Let his
reply be your answer to us now, President of a mighty Republic; let it be
your answer written in golden letters across the banner of that great
civilization, of which you are the presiding head.

The Republic of the United States ofAmerica has been compared to
that grain of mustard seed, which when planted in the earth budded forth
and grew into such dimensions that the birds of the air lodged under the
branches thereof. Ipray that the shadow of those branches be extended
over my bleeding nation.

ABDUL HAMID, THE TRIUMPH OF CRIME.

A monster assassin! Has he been brought before the bar of his
country, tried and condemned to the penalty of death, such as in the days
rofhis power he meted out to hundreds of thousands of innocents? Has he
been cast into a loathsome prison, such as the many l’] which thousands of
his victims have rotted and died? Nay! not so! it is not so decreed in
Turkey.

In Turkey, a camarilla of murderous and plundering pashas, and a
fanatical and marauding populace stand behind a Padishah who knew how to
furnish gratiﬁcation for the murdering and marauding instincts of his
adherents. Nay! neither death nor imprisonment for the Padishah whose
sovereignty was the most auspicious for brigandage and murder. \Vho
dares to slay or imprison the demigod of rapine and despotism? Such
things cannot be done in Turkey.

For crimes that were in comparison as light as air, those peurile tyrants,
Charles of England and Louis of France forfeited their heads. Poor Charles
and Louis ! Your heads chopped off and your bodies trundled away in a
cart: no glorifying spiritualized titles of Zeid and Imam read out in your bills
of indictment; such glorifying spiritualized titles are reserved for monster
assassins in Turkey.

In Turkey, a monster assassin whose list of murders rank him as premier
assassin of the world, who under heel of iron and ﬁre annihilated the rights
and liberties of his subjects is pensioned off to live in purple and fare sump-
tuously: housed in a luxurious palace, he sits on carpeted divans, supported

