6 CARNIVOROUS QUADRUPEDS.

and carnivorous habits. They walk on their toes: yet not so much from that habitual stealthiness
of pace, by which they advance unperceived till within a spring of their prey ; as because it is also
the means of that celerity of motion which is necessary to the very existence of animals that can

ﬂeed only on ﬂesh.

Their claws are exceedingly powerful; and they are enabled to draw them up into sheaths
between their toes, so as to prevent their points from touching the ground; whence they are
called retractile 3 and those claws are, in consequence, always kept sharp, unworn, and ready for
active service.

The eyes of the Feline tribe—of every face in nature a striking and important feature—vary
in the different species, and are capable of much alteration in the same animal, as instinctive
impulse, or internal emotion, changes the expression of his countenance; and also from the
degrees of light which act upon their pupils. Of Lions the pupils of the eyes are circular, and
not of a yellow colour, as has been stated in the most diffuse modern dissertations on the
Carnivora, but black. It is the iris of the Lion’s eye that is yellow. They appear to be best
suited to nocturnal, or twilight, vision 3 and hence the Lion rarely hunts his prey while the sun
is above the horizon—perhaps never, but when pressed by hunger in an extraordinary degree.
The Tiger, on the contrary, will seek his prey by day as well as by night 3 and during twilight the
colour of his eyes is that of a blue—greei‘i flame. If a stranger passes near a Tiger in a menagerie,
the colour of the animal’s eyes will sometimes alter suddenly, from yellow-green to blue—green 5
not from any alteration in the degree of light acting upon them, but from mental excitement, and
from a certain natural facility of expansion and contraction of the eye-pupils.

Hence a characteristic difference between the Lion and the Tiger. The habits of the latter
are diurnal, and he disregards night-ﬁres: the Lion, on the contrary, whose eyes are not calculated
for the glare of day, cannot hear to encounter ﬁre—light at night. Yet these physical conforma—
tions are sometimes overcome by the rage of hunger, and hence, in MR. EDWIN LANDSEER’S
contending group, the Lion is represented as attacking the Tiger although it be day.

MR. BELL treats learnedly, and we believe with \much originality, of the facial-muscles of
this class of quadrupeds, in his “ Anatomy of Expression.”—VVe shall offer a few extracts, by
which the reader will perceive how limited are their powers of expression of countenance, when
compared with those of human nature, notwithstanding their superiority over all other quadrupeds.

“The violent passions mark themselves so distinctly on the countenances both of men and
of animals, that we are apt in the first instance to consider the movements by which they are
indicated, as certain signs or characters provided by Nature, for the express purpose of intimating
the internal eniotion ; and to suppose that they are interpreted by the observer in consequence of a
peculiar and instinctive faculty. This view of things, however, so natural at ﬁrst sight, is not

altogether satisfactory to philosophy 3 and a more jealous observation of the facts, seems to suggest

