CARNIVOROUS QUADRUPEDS. 7

an opposite theory, in which instinctive agency is rejected, and the appearances are explained from
a consideration of the necessities and voluntary exertions of the animal. lVith regard to the
observer, it has been asserted, that it is by experience alone that he distinguishes the signs of the
passions; that we learn, while infants, to consider smiles as expressions of kindness, because they
are accompanied by acts of beneﬁcenee and by endearments, and ﬁ'owns as the contrary, because
we ﬁnd them followed by blows ; that the expression of anger in a brute, is only that which has
been observed to precede his biting, and that of fondness, his fawning and licking of the hand.
lVith regard to the creature itself, it is said, what has been called the external signs of passion, are
merely the concomitants of those voluntary movements, which the passions or habits suggest , that
the glare of the Lion’s eye, for example, is the consequence of a voluntary exertion to see his prey
more clearly—his grin, or snarl, the natural motion of uncasing his fangs before he uses them.
This, however, is not quite true of all animals and of all expression of passion.”

“Attending merely to the evidence furnished by anatomical investigation, all that I shall
venture to afﬁrm is this: that a remarkable difference is to be found between the anatomy and
range of expression, in man and in animals: that in the former there seems to be a systematic
provision for that mode of communication and that natural language, which is to be read in the
changes of the countenance: that there is no emotion in the mind of man which has not its
appropriate signs 5 and that there are even muscles in the human face to which no other use can be
assigned than to serve as the organs of this language: that, on the other hand, there is in the lower
animals no range of expression which is not fairly referable as a mere accessary to the voluntary
or needful actions of the animal , and that this necessary expression does not appear to be in any
degree commensurate to the variety and extent of the animal’s passions.”

“ There appears to me (continues MR. BELL) to be no expression in the face of any animal
lower in the scale of being than quadrupeds; and in them the strongest and most marked
expression is that of rage; the object of which is opposition, resistance, and defence. But on
examination it will be found (consistently with the position, that this is merely an accessary of
the motions natural to the accomplishment of the object which the animal has in View) that the
strength of the expression is in exact proportion to the strength of the principal action in the
creature when thus excited.

“ The gramnivorous animals, which seek their subsistence, not by preying upon others, nor by
the ferocity, contest, and victory which supply the carnivorous with food, have in their features no
strong expression of rage. Their expression is chieﬂy conﬁned indeed to the effect produced on the
general system. Thus the inﬂamed eye and the breathing nostrils of the Bull, are induced only
by the general excitement. His only proper expression of rage, is in the position of the head,
with the horns turned obliquely to the ground, ready to strike: and indeed it may be observed
in general that animals which strike with the horns, shew little indication of fear or rage, except in

