 

 

36 THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE.

and green. They were often not only richly adorned With fringes and
embroideries of gold, but set with pearls and precious stones of the most
costly kind, and these extravagances were not conﬁned to persons of rank.
They were imitated by those of lower station, and became so prevalent at
the commencement of the third century, that even the luxurious Emperor
Heliogabalus thought it necessary to publish an edict prohibiting the use
of such expensive shoes excepting to women of quality. The women
wore the close shoe or calceur. Gloves, too, as we have seen before,
were known and used in very early ages, and it appears probable that
they were ﬁrst devised by those whose labours called them to the thick-
tangled thorn coverts, but that they were worn by those who did not
labour is clearly proved by Homer, who describes the father of Ulysses
when living in a state of rest as wearing gloves; but he gives us no
information as to the material from which they were manufactured. The
Romans appear to have been much more addicted to the practice of
wearing gloves than the Greeks, and we are informed that “ under the
emperors they were made with fringes,” though others were without
them, and were fashioned much after the manner of the mittens of the
present day. Further on we learn that “ as riches and luxury increased,
the lady’s toilet was proportionately ﬁlled with ornaments for the person,
so that it was called ‘t/Je woman’s war! .”’ They not only anointed
the hair and used rich perfumes, but sometimes they painted it. They
also made it appear of a bright yellow colour by the assistance of washes
and compositions made for that purpose; but they never used powder,
which is a much later invention. They frizzled and curled the hair with
hot irons, and sometimes they raised it to a great height by rows of curls
one above another in the form of a helmet, and such as had not sufﬁcient
hair of their own used false hair to complete the lofty pile, and these
curls appear to have been fashioned with hairpins. The Grecian
virgins used to braid their hair in a multiplicity of knots, but that custom,
as well as painting the under part of the eyelids with black paint, was

