 

THE CORSET AND THE CRINOLINE. 37

 

discommended by an ancient poet. Persons of rank had slaves to
perform for them the ofﬁces of the toilet. They held the mirror in
their hand themselves and gave directions, and Martial tells us that, if the
slaves unfortunately placed a hairpin wrong, or omitted to twist the
curls exactly as they were ordered, the mirror was thrown at the
offender’s head, or, according to Juvenal, the whip was applied with
much severity. The hair was adorned with ornaments of gold, with
pearls and precious stones, and sometimes with garlands or Chaplets of
ﬂowers. It was also bound with ﬁllets and ribbons of various colours
and kinds. The net or hair-caul for the purpose of inclosing the
hinder part of the hair was in general use with the Grecian and Roman
ladies. These ornaments were frequently enriched with embroidery,
and sometimes made so thin that Martial sarcastically called them
“ Madden.”

Again, in the matter of earrings, we quote from the same valuable
and trustworthy authority. No adornment of the head claims priority
to earrings. They have been fashionable, as Montfaucon justly observes,
in all ages and almost all nations. It is evident from Homer that the
Grecian women bored their ears for the admission of these ornaments.
The poet gives earrings to the goddess Juno, and the words he uses on
the occasion are literally these :—“ In her well-perforated ears she put the
earrings of elaborate workmanship, having three eyes in each”—that is,
three pendants or jewels, either made in the form of eyes, or so called
from their brightness. The extravagance of the Grecian and Roman
ladies in the purchase of these articles of adornment almost exceeds
belief. Pliny says, “They seek for pearls at the bottom of the Red
Sea, and search the bowels of the earth for emeralds to ornament their
ears;” and Seneca tells us that “a single pair of earrings was worth
the revenue of a large estate, and that some women would wear at their
ears the price of two or three patrimonies.” We read that the earrings
worn by Cleopatra were valued at £161,458, and that Servilia, the

D

 

